Life vest under your seat
Fasten seat belt while seated
ARCHITECTURAL SYMBOLS
The Palace's design reflects the ways in which its architect Ngô Viết Thụ took inspiration from his knowledge of symbolic concepts derived from Eastern philosophy.
The building's overall structural plan is a rendering of an ancient Ideogram , meaning 'good fortune'.
The front elevation's openings kõu, symbolise truthful speech.
The placing of the flagstaff zhõng, symbolises 'unswerving fidelity'.
Three horizontal strokes illustrated by the roofing, fâcde and canopy sãn, symbolise the mystical triad humanity, wisdom and firmness of purpwe.
The three strokes united by a vertical with the flag situated above forms a character zhũ, signifying the power of the head of state.
The lines along the fâcde xìng, signify ‘prosperity’.
INDEPENDENCE PALACE
Declared a National Site in 1076, then Special National Site in 2009, the Independence Palace, which was first opened to the public in 1990, has been the scene of many of the most important and dramatic events in Viet Nam’s history.
Today’s Palace occupies the site of the former residence of the French colonial Governors General, designed by Achille-Antoine Hermitte and completed in 1871.
Following the 1945 Geneva Accords, the old structure, renamed Independence Palace, became the residence of the first President of the new Sai Gon Republic Ngo Dinh Diem, After a bomb attack on 27 February 1962, President Diem’s assassination in 1963.His successor Nguyen Van Thieu assumed the presidency in October 1967 and occupied the Palace until his abdication on 21 April 1975, when he has replaced by his Vice President Tran Van Huong, and then a week later by General Duong Van Minh.
On 30 April 1975, Liberation Forces antered the Palace grounds and raised the flag of liberation for the first time from its rooftop. General Duong Van Minh offerd his unconditional surrender. Victory had come. The liberation of the South had been achieved.
CABINET ROOM
The meetings held in this room induded sittings of the President and his minisfers.
By decree of President Thiệu in November 1967, the government consisted of the Prime Minister, 19 cabinet mintetefs and 7 deputy ministers.
From 1967 to 1975, there were 5 Cabinet reshuffles.
The longest was General Trln Thiện Khiêm, who remained in office for 6 years. The last serving cabinet and its Prime Minister Vũ Văn Mẫu were appointed on 29 April 1975 and were in the process of being formally presented to the President on 30 April at 10 am at the moment when radio Sàì Gòn was broadcasting President Dương Văn Minh’s statement of surrender confirming the end of hostilities and the transfer of power to the Provisional Revolutiomry Government of the Republic of South Việt Nam,
THE BOMBING OF THE PALACE
On 8 April 1975, an underground member of the Communist Party of Vietnam, Lieutenant Nguyễn Thành Trung, who had infiltrated the airforce of the Southern Republic, seized the opportunity provided by his assignment to fly a military mission to Phan Thiết.
Evading detection by the local control tower, Lt.<s id="d18p12s1">Trung flew his F5E aircraft directly over Sài Gòn and succeeded in dropping two bombs on the Palace before landing at an improvised airstrip prepared by the Liberation Forces.
The helipad on the upper terrace of the Palace and the main central staircase were damaged in the attack, though they were subsequently repaired .
But this feat seriously undermined the republic's authority and prompted the US President to order the evacuation of the last of the Americans still in Sài Gòn.
CONFERENCE HALL
Receptions for as many as 500 guests were held in this room, which was also used for the installation of each new Cabinet.
At 19:30 on 21 April 1975, President Thiệu delivered his resignation speech ỉn this room: he spoke for over 2 hours about the country's situation in the wake of the Americans' decision to discontinue their support.
Vice President Trần Văn Hương then succeeded to the Presidency, pledging to continue the struggle “to the bitter end” He resigned just a week later, and was replaced by General Dương Văn Minh, from whom the revolutionary authorities received the formal declaration of surrender.
In November 1975, the Consultative Council for National Reunification used this room for its deliberations.
Today it is used for official receptions and other important events.
STATE BANQUETING HALL
State banquets with as many as 100 guests were held in this room.
One of the most notable such events was the inauguration dinner of President Nguyên Văn Thiệu and his Vice President Nguyễn Cao Kỳ on 31 October 1967.
The last State Dinner was held here by President Thiệu on 1 March 1975 for the us congressional delegation sent to report on the prospects for continued support for the southern government.
The room's gold colour scheme was intended to create a convivial atmosphere.
Its focal point is the massive painting in 7 sections by the Palace's architect Ngô Viết Thụ representing a scene from a poem in Chinese characters widely known and cherished as an evocation of national unity.
Its opening lines are "The land is as lovely as a length of brocade, all its growing thing's ripening in peace".
NATIONAL SECURITY COUNCIL CHAMBER
This room was used for meetings between the President and his senior officers and US advisers.
The walls are hung with maps documenting the war situation in the South.
On 25 March 1975 at 9:30am, faced with the continuing advance of the liberation forces, President Thiệu ordered his senior General Ngô Quang Trưởng to evacuate the city of Huế and mount a last-ditch defence at Đà Nẵng.
This prompted us President Gerald Ford to dispatch the last of the many fact-finding missions sent to report on the situation in the South.
On 3 April 1975, the delegation assembled in this room for a meeting with President Thiệu and his senior military leaders, seeking unsuccessfully to find a solution to the military impasse confronting them.
PRESIDENTIAL OFFICE
Nguyễn Văn Thiệu was born in 1923 in Tri Thủy village, Ninh Hải district, Ninh Thuận province.
He was trained at the national officer's school at Đà Lạt and subsequently in the USA and France.
Having taken part in the coup d’état tat against President Diệm in November 1963, he made a rapid rise to power, becoming Prime Minister with the associated portfolios of Minister of Defence and National Assembly President, then President of the Southern Republic in 1967.
Thiệu wrote to the US President on 25 March 1975 appealing for an air assault against the arIas under the control of the Vietnamese Revolutionary Forces and for continuing American support for the Southern Republic. His appeal was rejected.
He resigned on 21 April 1975 and then fled the country. He died in Boston, USA, in 2001.
PRESIDENTIAL RECEPTION ROOMS
In the first of the two presidential reception rooms, the President's chair is placed on a platform in front of a striped panel symbolising the flag of the Republic of Việt Nam.
Facing the President's throne-like seat is a chair intended for the guest of honour.
Both are carved with dragon's head motifs.
The other chairs are carved with a phoenix head or characters symbolising longevity.
The second room is considerably simpler.
Between 19 and 23 October 1972, six meetings were held in this room between President Thiệu and Henry Kissinger, President Nixon's National Security Advisor, during which Kissinger sought to persuade President Thiệu to accept the agreement which was eventually enacted as the Paris Peace Accords of January 1973.
AMBASSADORS CHAMBER
Before 1975, many countries had embassies in Sài Gòn.
Newly arrived ambassadors presented their credentials to the President in this room in the presence of the Minister of Foreign Affairs.
The furnishings and pictures in the room are in fine Japanese-style lacquer-work, created by the artist Nguyễn Văn Minh.
The larger painting in 40 small panels entitled "Declaration of victory over the Ming” depicts a famous scene from the reign of King Lê Lợi.
The wall sconces were lit during ambassadorial presentation ceremonies.
On 18 April 1975 at 11:30am, President Nguyễn Văn Thiệu received the newly appointed Japanese Ambassador, Hiroshi Hitomi. This was the last such ceremony ever enacted in the Independence Palace.
FIRST LADY’S RECEPTION ROOM
The President's wife held receptions here, often entertaining the wives of visiting heads of State and leaders of various national and international organisations.
The lamps in the shape of flowers give the room a sense of peace and charm.
The décor features a distinctive pairing of two contrasting motifs: the three porcelain figures representing the traditional Gods of Happiness, Prosperity and Longevity and an abstract fresco in modem cubist style.
The wife of President Nguyễn Văn Thiệu, Mrs.Nguyễn Thị Mai Anh, was bom in 1930 in Mỹ Tho in Tiền Giang province, to a family of Catholic doctors.
She married Nguyễn Vãn Thiệu in 1951, when he was a serving army lieutenant; they had three children, a daughter, Nguyễn Thị Tuấn Anh and two sons, Nguyễn Quang Lộc and Nguyên Thiệu Long.
SALON OF THE 4 CARDINAL DIRECTIONS
This room "of the 4 cardinal directions of peace" was also known as the meditation room, and was intended by the architect Ngô Viết Thụ as a space in which the head of State would find the calm necessary to reflect with due care before taking decisions determining the country's future.
President Nguyễn Văn Thiệu transformed this space intended for meditative contemplation into a party room with space for the entertainment of 100 or more guests.
The dance floor was constructed from high-quality hard-wood and the windows were constructed from blast-proof glass 12mm in thickness.
On 30 April 1975 at 11:30am, Lieutenant Bùi Quang Thận raised the flag of the Provisional Revolutionary Government from the flagpole above this room, having first taken down the flag of the newly dissolved Republic of Việt Nam.
BUNKER
Designed by the Lt.Col.Phan Văn Điển, the construction of the Presidential bunker took 3 months.
72.5m long, 0.8 to 22.5m in width and with a depth of 0.6 to 2.5m, the rooms are linked by narrow passages and protected by reinforced concrete walls.
It consists of two sections.
The command centre has a depth of 0.6m and is protected by a concrete wall capable of resisting a 500kg blast.
Its telecommunication equipment was installed by the Americans in the 1960s.
The maximum security shelter; at a depth of 2.5m, has a blast wall capable of resisting explosions of up to 2,000kg.
A staircase gave the President direct access to the shelter from his 2nd-floor office.
During the bombing of the Palace on 8 April 1975 the President's whole family took refuge in the shelter.
COMMAND CENTRE
This heavily shielded area was used as an intelligence coordination centre.
The maps provided an overview of on-going military operations.
Map of Việt Nam (1) shows the country divided at the 17th Parallel as provided for by the 1954 Geneva Accords which partitioned the country into the Democratic Republic of Việt Nam in the North, and the Republic of Việt Nam in the South.
Map of South-Việt Nam (2) shows the famous supply network known as the Hồ Chí Minh Trail. The areas thought to be used as bases by the revolutionary forces are shown in orange.
This information was provided by aerial photography with further corroboration from secret intelligence operatives.
Map of North-Việt Nam (3) shows military activities in the northern military zones.
The room also displays a top secret RVN document (4) entitled: "Military Allied Personnel Statistics for 1968"
COMMUNICATIONS
This was the Palace's main receiving station for coded intelligence messages; it could also be used for national radio broadcasts in times of emergency. It could accommodate 41 staff including telegraphists, telex clerks and mobile radio operators whose task was to maintain contact with troop units in the field as well as communication with overseas embassies and diplomatic missions.
In 1968, an emergency national radio service transmitter was instilled in the Palace, initially to broadcast to the area around Sài Gòn - Gia Định, then enhanced with the addition of two l0 kw transmitters allowing for broadcasts to the whole of the Delta and Central Region, A 45m antenna was erected in the Palace garden.
Radio contact with Washington and other overseas contact with Wanshington and other overseas capitals was maintained via relay stations established at Phú Lâm in Sài Gòn.
KITCHEN
This was the kitchen for major event such as the banquet marking the inauguration of President Thiệu, as well as National Day celebrations and state banquet for distinguished visitors, H also provided for grand family occasions such as the wedding of thfe President’s daughter, The kitchen was furnished with what was the most luxurious of modern equipment, of a standard fit for a five-star hotel.
Among the more notable appliances the kitchen contained a massive freezer, elaborate smoke extractors above the oven, and a scale for weighing provisions with a capacity of up to 100kg.
On the mezzanine level on the left-hand fide of the Palace, there was a smaller kitchen to provide for the everyday requirements of the President and his family.
HOTEL REGULATIONS
1) Guests are required to present their Identification upon check in
a) Vietnamese; VN ID Cards.Passport or other Identilicalion.
b) Foreigner, Passports and Visa, Guests with spouses (or one Vietnamese and one Foreigner share the room) must present the spouse's marriage certificate in order to register and occupy rooms are regulated by local law.
2) Check- out time in at noon 12:00, In case : if the guests want to late check-out, please contact. the Reception and we have available room, Extra fee will be charged,
-Cheek out before 3pm: extra charge 25% room rale/per night
-From 3pm-6pm: half charge room rate/per night
-Alter 6pm: full charge room rate/per night
3) Gamble is not allowed in the rooms.
4) Making noise is not permitted in the rooms.
5) The hotel is only responsible for money or valuables deposited at the Reception.
Guests must show the consignation forms upon receiving the valuables.
6) Room keys must be kept the Front Desk upon guest leaving the premises.
In case, the lost room keys by guest will be compensated for the new one.
7) Cooking and ironing are forbidden in the rooms, hanging clothes are forbidden on the balcony.
If any service, please contact the Reception.
8) Bringing kinds of drink, ill-smell foods and pets or live animals into the rooms are not allowed.
9) Guest are used all the facilities in the rooms. In case guests ruin and lose anything, compensate to the hotel with the price posted the bill,
10) Prostitutes are not allowed in the premises, as regulated by local law.
11) No weapons, poison, explosives, flammable substance are allowed. As regulated by local law.
12) Drugs, dope substance are strictly prohibited in the hotel, as regulated by local law.
Thank you very much
WHAT TO DO IN CASE OF FIRE
For your safety, please read the following instruction carefully:
Precautions:
- Do not dispose of lighted cigarettes or matchsticks in the waste bins.
- Do not smoke in the bed.
- Do not cook in tbe room.
In case of fire:
- Stay calm and Immediately notify the operator by touching 0 (zero).
- Take your door lock key card, leave your room and proceed to the nearest fire exits.
- Do not use elevators, go down stairs by using the fire exits.
- Follow instructions from our staff member
- If you can not go down, go back to your room.
- Call the operator, give your room number and axplain that you are in you room.
IN ROOM COMPENDIUM
1) AIRLINE RESERVATION
Please contact Front Office for assistance and information.
2) BAGGAGE SERVICE
Please contact Front Office for baggage collection or storage.
3) BANQUET AND MEETING FACILITIES
Please contact Front Office for more information.
4) CREDIT CARD.
The hotel accepts major credit cards such as Visa, Master, JCB and Amex.
The hotel does not accept personal cheque for payment.
5) CURRENCY EXCHANGE.
Please contact at the Front Desk for more information and assistance.
6) CAR RENTAL.
For information and arrangements please contact Front Office.
7) DO NOT DISTURB.
Please set up DO NOT DISTURB notice outside of your room door for privacy.
8) ENERGY SAVING.
We are using an energy saving key system, in the room power supply will be switched off when you take out the key card from the key slot.
9) EXTRA BED.
Please contact Front Office for arrangement, extra fee will be charged
10) FIRE EXITS.
We strongly recommend that you carefully read the emergency instructions posted on the inside of the hotel information.
SOUTHERN ANCIENT HOUSE HISTORY
This house was built in 1906 by Mr Tran Hi Nguon ( 1876-1926) in Binh Thuy Village, the richest place of Can Tho at that time. The house was Situated about 10 km from here.
Mr. Tran Hi Nguon was the son of a landowner with 300 hectares of land.
He had two wifes and four children.
The brick house for the fisrt wife was devastated by war. This woonden house was for the second wife, Nuyen Thi Phong ( 1887-…). After she passed away, the house was inherited by her daughter, Tran Thi Dam.
In late 2002, the house was seriously degraded, Therefore Tran Thi Dam’s family assigned the house to Mr.Le Van Sang, director of My Khanh Ecological Tourism Limited Company, to restore with the desire to preserve the cultural values of Southern VietNam
PASSENGER GIUDE
Boarding gate closes 15 minutes before departure time.
Late passenger may not be accepted for travel.
Exit Row Seating Criteria Passengers are only allowed to open the exit door in case of emergency or when requested by cabin crew.
A passenger seated on an emergency exit seat may be required to assist in the performance of emergency evacuation functions listed or depicted on this safety information card.
Hence, the criteria for passengers seated in an exit row are:
1) Healthy, alert and dexterity to operate the exit door in an emergency and help other passengers while at the escape slide.
2) Should have sufficient visual, aural and speech capabilities to read, hear and convey orally, or understand instructions related to emergency evacuation provided in printed or graphic form or instructed by the cabin crew.
3) Not less than 15 years of age.
4) Should not be responsible for caring of accompanying small children, the elderly or incapacitated passengers.
Emergency Evacuation Functions
In the event of an emergency persons seated at the a row leading to an exit no manned by cabin crew may be called upon to perform the following:
1) Recognize, locate and operate the emergency exit opening mechanism.
2) Assess whether opening the emergency exit will increase the ha2ards to which passengers may be exposed.
3) Slow and secure the emergency exit door so that It will not impede expedient passage.
4) The inflatable slide will be deployed when the emergency exit door is opened.
When the slide has fully inflated shout to passengers to evacuate.
Exit yourself.
Wait at the bottom to help passengers get off the slide.
(Note: In case of ditching, the slide will not be deployed).
IF YOU ARE ALLOCATED SEATING IN AN EXIT ROW AND CANNOT MEET THE CRITERIA LISTED ABOVE, OR LACK THE ABILITY TO READ AND UNDERTAND THE EMERGENY EVACUATION INSTRUCTIONS PRINTED ON THIS CARD OR DO NOT WISH TO PERFORM THIS CARO OR DO NOT WISH TO PERFORM ANY OF THE FUNCTIONS, PLEASE IDENTIFY YOURSELF TO A CREW MEMBER FOR RE-SEATING.
