Phu Tho is a midland province in the Northern of Vietnam with nature land area at 3,532km2, of which 97,610 ha are agricultural land, 200,000 ha of forest land including 64,064 ha of natural forest, 10,000 ha of water surface for aquaculture and other land.
The province plays as a northwest gate of Hanoi capital, is 50 kilometers distance from He kou international border gate (between Lao Cai - Vietnam and Yunnan - China). This province is the center of the region and is the meeting point of three large rivers (Da river, Red river and Lo river), so it makes Phu Tho favorable traffic system on land, railway and by water. This foundation makes strong potential for economic development and exchange with the other economic regions of both domestic and other nations.
Phu Tho is well known as the cradle of civilization of Lac Viet culture - the center land of Viet ancient people - era Hung Kings - Van Lang country.
Passing thousand years of history, this land still preserves a relic system remarks the foundation of the country. There are more than 1,372 historical monuments of culture (of which, Hung temple is a special national monument), and 223 folk festivals, and specific arts (specially, "Xoan Singing of Phu Tho province" - the intangible cultural heritage in need of urgent safeguarding and Hung Kings Worship and Belief in Phu Tho - the intangible cultural heritage representative of humanity have been recognized by UNESCO in 2011 and 2012).
Phu Tho is also famous for well-known tourist attractions including Xuan Son National Park (with system of interesting caverns and caves, diversified plants and animals), Thanh Thuy hot mineral water site with huge capacity for health care, Ao Chau and Van Hoi lagoon, Ao Gioi - Suoi Tien (God Pond - Fairy spring), ect.
In order to exploit all potentials and strengthens on tourism, Phu Tho made a planning of tourism development in term from 2011 - 2015 and orientation to 2030 and encourages  both domestic and international investors on developing tourism of culture and original spirit, ecological - beauty of nature tourism, tourism of resorts and health care, ect.
Phu Tho province warmly welcomes and will be your companion in the investment process.
Project's name: Investing to build Southern Hung King temple Tourism and Service area
Location: At Hung King temple historical monument - Viet Tri city - Phu Tno province.
Description: under the project's planning, the project is executed on total land area at 235.026 ha, including two functional areas:
Hung King culture tourism village: 80.02 ha including following work items
Reception area, technical infrastructure and common works; total land area for building is at 28.69 ha; building area is at 21352m2
Area for building of patriotic-war-dead memorial: total land area for building is at 5.91 ha; building area is at 7000m2
Area for Hung King culture and exhibition: total land area for building is at 45.42 ha; building area is at 48523m2
Forest at the South: 1 55.01 ha, including:
Reception area and supplying common service; total land area for building is at 6.54 ha; building area is at 13900m2
Forest of odd and strange flowers and plants: total land area for building is at 14.09 ha; building area is at 16.167m2
Mountainous and beautiful view area: total land area for building is at 34.55 ha; building area is at 22.142m2.
Guest houses with future houses: total land area for building is at 36.12 ha; building area is at 38.136m2.
Complex area of service and forest structure with season color changing: total land area for building is at 26.38 ha; building area is at 37.283m2.
Area of Project management Unit and common works: total land area for building is at 37.32 ha; building area is at 23.839m2
Project's name: Investing to build Van Lang tourism area
Location: Viet Tri city, Phu Tho province
Description: under the project's planning, the project is executed on total land area at 116.2 ha, including 13 Functional areas:
Lac Long Quan - Au Co area: 6.64 ha; including works: Gate, water shops, souvenir shops, water palace, Mrs.Au Co statue, statues of 54 ethnics of Vietnam, house for rest, WC, and parking.
Son Tlnh - Thuy Tinh area: 2.55ha, including works and items: gate, upper floor for choosing son-in-law, house for taking photograph, bonsai pool, house for rest, statues of gifts (elephant with 9 ivories, chicken with 9 spurs), ventilation booth houses, restaurant of fish, car parking, tower of fishing.
Area for legend of Hung King era: 5.25 ha, including items and works: Area of piper bithe and areca-nut history, magic rice history, Chung - Day cake history, WC, car  parking.
Area of Tien Dung - Chu Dong Tu island: 0.62 ha, including works and building: Tien Dung - Chu Dong Tu palace.
Island of Mai An Hem: 0.21 ha
Area of culture and art performance: 2.03ha including works and items: communal house of Hung King, other auxiliaries works as Xoan singing performance area, service house, statue of Miss.Que Hoa, flower house, tower of rest, car parking.
Area for teenagers: 1.99ha, including works and items: Square for entertainment, Giong hero statue, area for camping, clubs of teenagers.
Green tree and landscape: 15.19 ha
Public service area: 2.33ha; including works of management house, Van Lang bookstore, Souvenir shops, flower shop, house for taking photograph, house for fine arts  exhibition.
Area of food: 1 .36ha including: Drinking and ice cream shop, boathouse, small hotel (two floors), and small restaurants.
Controlling area: 0.26ha
Water surface: 64.30ha including bonsai pool with fish, row.
Car parking: 1 ,77ha including management house, hall, kiots , house for guardians.
Project's name: Investing to build Thanh Thuy mineral hot water tourism area
Location: Thanh Thuy district - Phu Tho province
Description: under the project's planning, the project Is executed on total land area at 4772.54 ha, including 9 functional areas:
Center of culture, sport, entertainment, and trade: 327.70 ha (Thach Khoan, La Phu, Son Thuy, Bao Yen, Doan Ha communes).
Tourism area as special: 04.01 ha (La Phu, Son Thuy)
Villas and resorts: 89ha (Thach Khoan, La Phu)
Area of mineral hot wafer washing and product (ram nature: 41.56 ha (Son Thuy commune)
Area of ecology tourism and golf: 843.70 ha (La Phu, Son Thuy, Bao Yen)
Area of cinema: 410.46 ha (Thach Khoan - La Phu)
Resident area and new urban area: 303.29ha (Thach Khoan, La Phu, Son Thuy, Bao Yen, Doan Ha).
Area of infrastructure, management, and production of mineral water bottles and common works: 131.94ha (Thach Khoan, La Phu, Son Thuy, Bao Yen, Doan Ha).
Buffer areas to maintain sites and protect water resources, rural areas and afforest: 2075.36ha (Thach Khoan, La Phu, Son Thuy, Bao Yen, Doan Ha).
Project's name: Investment to build Toursim area of Xuan Son National park
Location: Xuan Son National park, Tan Son district, Phu Tho province
Description: under the project, total land area for building is at 43.791, including 4 functional areas:
Tourism area of creature and landscape (core area of Xuan Son national park) with total area at 15890.45ha.
Including all area of Xuan Son commune, a part of Tan Phu, Dong Son, Lai Dong, Tan Son, Xuan Dai and Kim Thuong communes.
Area of tourism, service, and trade of Thach Kiet -Tan Phu is 7,056.49 ha consists of all area of Tan Phu, Thach Kiet, Xuan Dai communes.
Area of urban, culture, and sport of Minh Dal -land area at 4364.75 ha including Minh Dai and Van Luong communes.
Farms and feeding semi-wife animal with total 15402.18ha including a land part of Dong Son, Kiet Son, Tan Son, Xuan Dai, Thuong communes.
Project's name: Investing to build Ao Chau lagoon tourism area
Locations: Ha Hoa district, Phu Tho province
Decision of planning: No.: 3522/QD-UB dated 15th October 2001 Phu Tho provincial People's Committee on approving the general planning of Ao Chau lagoon  tourism area, Ha Hoa district.
Descriptions: under the projects planning, the project is executed on total land area at 1500 ha (of which 300 ha of water surface), including the followed functional areas:
Center of reception and tourism controlling: 15ha
The main guest house and hotel (2-3 stars): 7.5ha
Area of park with general entertainment: 18ha
Area of camping, fishing: 55ha
Guest house for common people: 60ha
Green park under each theam: 120 ha
Park with animal: 95ha
Green plant with landscape: 34.5ha
Area for resident for a long time: 33ha
Area for development reservation: 23ha
Traffic (road, bus station): 9ha
Route for tourism along lagoon and branches of the lagoon and lead to functional areas.
Protection forest and buffer area: 800ha
Au Co Mother temple is one of the national culture monument which last for more 5 centuries. And now this land is the original of Au Co Mother worship of Vietnam.
Au Co Mother temple has high value on architectural art. Festival of Au Co Mother temple has also much supernatural power in sprit of Vietnamese people.
The temple locates near to Ao Chau lagoon, Ao Gioi - Suoi Tien (Heaven pond - Fairly stream), Van Hoi lagoon, and places on the tourism route from Hung King temple - Au Co Mother Temple -Yen Bai province - Lao Cai province.
Phu Tho is mobilizing investment to build culture constructions and technical infrastructure for service of tourism and explode the tourism service of spirit and culture connected with beautiful landscape.
The historical monument - Lang Suong temple locates a Lang Suong hamlet, Trung Nghia commune, Thanh Thuy district, Phu Tho province; it is far from Thanh Thuy hot mineral water tourism area at 5km, and far from Ho Chi Minh historical monument (Chong rock - Ba Vi) at 3km and placed at the tourism route Thanh Thuy hot mineral water tourism area - Xuan Son national park.
This is nominal monument for worship of mother at North Delta and the worship of Tan Vien hero at Ba Vi mountain.
Lang Suong temple is planed as place of festival tourism with total area at 42.97m2, including functional places of culture, food, staying, and service.
Phu Tho is mobilizing investment to build technical infrastructure for service of tourism and explode Lang Suong temple for the tourism service of spirit and culture.
Phuc Co revolution base, Minh Hoa commune, Yen Lap district is one of five famous resistance bases of Phu Tho province at time of pre-revolution and this land is recognized as historical and cultural monument of the province.
In this land, the landscape is neglected with Long Chao stream with small falls, beautiful landscape. This land is good place for tourism investment with services of ecology, resort, traditional culture of Muong ethnic people.
Under the plan, cultural and historical monument - Phuc Co revolution base will connect with community ecology tourism with total area at 330ha with functional areas as magement, area for services of tourism -convalescence - entertainment with tourism tour of crossing fall.
Phu Tho is mobilizing investment to build culture constructions and technical infrastructure for service of tourism and explode the tourism service of culture, ecology and beautiful landscape, and convalescence.
May falls 9ets area at 800ha of Luoi Hai mountain, Huong Can commune, Thanh Son district, Phu Tho province. This land is far from Viet Tri city at 60km on the southwest, and far from Thanh Thuy Hot mineral water tourism area at 20km on the West, near to highway 316 about 1km.
May fall area contains beautiful and wild landscape with primeval forest, projection forest, and fresh environment.
May falls contains 13 small and large falls with high fall which pour water into abyss and green and pure water. Along streams, rocks with many odd figure and forms which create wonderful land for tourism.
Phu Tho is mobilizing investment to change May fall as tourism service of ecology, beautiful landscape, and convalescence.
Mo Fall places at Cu Thang commune, Thanh Son district, Phu Tho province. This land is far from Thanh Thuy Hot mineral water tourism area at 15km on the West, far from  Xuan Son National Part about 55km and, near to highway 316 about 3km.
Mo Fall is system of small falls, continuously. Specially, there is a 60m fall with vertical rock surface and the water pour on cobble with miraculous colors.
Along streams, rocks with many odd figure and forms which create wonderful land for tourism.
Phu Tho is mobilizing investment to change May fall as tourism service  of ecology.
Van Hoi lagoon places at Hien Luong commune, Ha Hoa district, Phu Tho province. This land is far from Viet Tri about 80km, far from Au Co Mother temple (Ha Hoa district)  about 1 km, next to Hai Phong - Ha Noi - Con Minh highway and this project is near to Ngoi Van lagoon about 700m.
Van Hoi lagoon places on more 200ha of water surface and 40 islands with largest island, whose land ate is 10 ha of area.
The lagoon gets opening systems of water supplying and draining, so the water level of stable, water of the lagoon is pure and fresh.
Surrounding of the lagoon is system of mountains, hills, forest and it makes this land is poetic landscape.
Phu Tho is mobilizing investment to Van Hoi lagoon as tourism area of convalescence - and luxury entertainment.
Besides about projects, Phu Tho is encouraging investment on tourism project: hotel with 4-5 stars, project to build Heaven pond - Fairly stream (Ao Gioi - Suoi Tien) - Ha Hoa  province as tourism area of ecology; project to build Archaeological sites of Ca village, Mun hill, Ren hamlet as destination of culture tourism.
Incentives on land use
Investors have the right to select the appropriate location and land area to suit their project scale based on approved plan and the right to choose between assigning the  land with land usage fee and leasing the land under the current laws.
Investors are exempt from land lease fees from 3 to 15 years and enjoy a reduction of land lease fees from 20 to 50% depending on types of projects and investment locations in accordance with Decree No.: 142/2005/ND-CP dated 14th November 2005; the Decree No.: 121/2010/ND-CP dated 30th December 2010.
Investment projects on infrastructure of industrial zones shall receive support at 10% of land rent.
Tax incentives policies:
Incentive beneficiaries: investors in the province are entitled to incentives according to investment sectors and locations as provided by Decree No 108/2006/ND-CP dated 22nd September, 2006 by the Government to issue detailed instructions for the implementation of certain clauses and provisions of the Law on Investment.
Incentives on enterprise income tax, import tax are defined in Investment Law, Import Export Tax Law, Decree No 124/2008/ ND-CP dated December 11th, 2008;  Decree No 149/2005/ ND-CP dated December 8th, 2005 and current regulations remaining in force at the time of the project.
Investors shall be entitled 10% to 20% of reduction of tax rates for 10 to 30 years according to types of project and investment locations. Investors shall be enjoyed tax holiday from 2 to 4 years and 50% reduction of tax rates in the next 4 to 9 years depending on types of projects and investment location.
Investor shall be exempted from import and export tax for create fixed asset of investment project in accordance with approved lists and regulation current in force.
Other incentives policies:
Received provision of power and water supply to the boundary of the project.
Gained support for road construction to the boundary of the industrial zones on scale depending on kind of project and area of investment but shorter than 3km.
Exempted from infrastructure fees during construction period (which does not exceed a maximum of 3 years) for the special incentive project; and exempted all with the project on public service in industrial zones.
The special important projects for the province shall be considered for special support policies.
Provided free of charge with documents relating to the project.
Exempted from administrative fees required for project application with project licensed by the province.
Exempted for fees for participation in investment and trade promotion conference organized in the province.
Exempted from contribution fees for the province when joining the province's team to attend other investment promotion event.
Administrative procedure for receiving investment project.
Phu Tho provincial People's Committee promulgated "One door" for all projects In Phu Tho with quick, dear, effective procedure. It reduces Inconvenient, cost, and time of Investors.
Investor shall prepare documents and submit at one of two main doors:
Department of Investment and Planning (for projects outside of Industrial zone)
Industrial Zones Management Board (for projects within Industrial zone).
Investment approval procedures:
Types of documents:
Application for Investment Approval Award by Investor.
Summary of Investment project.
Recipient Agency and processing duration:
Department of Investment and Planning ( evaluation and recommendation)
Duration: within 07 working days.
Phu Tho People's Committee (consideration for approval)
Duration: within 02 working days.
Investment Certificate Procedure:
Types of documents:
Location acceptance Permit (approved)
Investment Approval Award by the Province's People committee
Investment project report and other related documents (if any)
Environmental assessment report (or commitment for environmental protection) - approved
Request for Investment Certificate Issuance
Recipient Agency and processing duration:
Department of Investment and Planning ( evaluation and recommendation)
Duration: within 15 working days.
Phu Tho People's Committee (consideration for approval)
Duration: within 02 working days.
Procedure of establishment of enterprises, branches, representative offices
Types of documents:
Application (or notice on the establishment of branches, representative offices)
Identify card
Charter of company
Recipient Agency and processing duration:
Department of Investment and Planning ( consideration for Issuance)
Duration: within 05 working days.
Procedure of applying construction Permit
Documents consist:
Application for construction permit
Copy of document certifying of land use as a required by the Law on land
Blue prints of construction plan, cross section, typical vertical cut section, foundation plan, position plan, electricity and water plan with technical connection point for electricity, water and sewage system.
Recipient Agency and processing duration:
Department of Investment and Planning (receiving records and transfer to Construction Department)
Duration: within 02 working days.
Construction Department (consideration For Issuance) Duration: within 15 working days.
Office
Address: Tran Phu road, Tan Dan ward, Viet Tri city, Phu Tho province
Tex: +84-210 3 846 581
Fax: +84-210 3 840 955
Email: pitc.phutho@gmail.com
Website: www.dpi.phutho.gov.vn
Phu Tho Investment, Trade and Tourism Promotion Center (Investors supporting and consulting agency)
Address: Tran Phu road, Tan Dan ward, Viet Tri city, Phu Tho province
Tex: +84-210 3 993 689
Fax; +84 210 3 993 589
Email: ptic.phutho@gmail.com
Website: www.dpi.phutho.gov.vn
Division of Tourism Resource* Development 
Address: Tran Phu road, Gia Cam ward, Viet Tri city, Phu Tho province
Tex: +84-210 3 686 979
Fax: +84-210 3 848 545
Email: tainguyendulichphutfio@gmail.com
PMU of Culture, Sport and Tourism
Address: Tran Phu road, Gia Cam ward, Viet Tri city, Phu Tho province
Tex: +84-210 3 9.40 531.
Fax: +84-210 3 952 068
