Weather Da Nang
Da Nang has a tropical monsoon climate, typically high and rather invariable temperature.
There are two seasons annually: rainy season lasting from August to December and dry season from January to July.
From January to July: During the day, the sun blazes; so bring a sunscreen jacket and lotion.
In the evening, t-shirt and shorts are highly recommended for flexibility.
From August to December: Be prepared with a raincoat or umbrella for sudden rain. Also, it is cool and chilly during November
Click here to view detailed information about the weather forecast today, tomorrow and the next day
Danang Tourism Logo &amp; Slogan
The main creation idea is the stylization of 2 letters D and N, first letters of Da Nang.
The logo’s parts are created by sturdily rising lines and lively colors to represent the idea of the variety and young vitality of Danang.
To increase the visual efficiency, logo is embossed with split lines.
The embossment can be clearly perceived at a distance observation.
Clear-cut features in the creation confirm the idea of the strong development of Danang.
5 parts in logo represent for 5 mountains of Marble Mountains.
As a famous landscape, Marble Mountains deserves one of the most meaningful symbols for Danang tourism.
5 parts with 5 bright colors showcase the young, dynamic city.
Each color represents one feature of Danang tourism.
Green symbolizes for the purity and the natural diversity.
Yellow and orange show the tropical sunlight sparkling on waves, on sand.
Red and purple mean the beauty of enthusiasm and friendliness of Danang people.
And blue arouse the image of “one of the most luxurious beaches in the world”… The gracefulness of logo’s forming and color is based on the steady platform that is DANANG and slogan “Fantasticity!” to make the perfect whole.
Besides obvious meanings, the logo form arouses the image of sails fill with wind.
Not only do sails heading for the sea represent a picturesque coastal city, but they also symbolize the young vitality and the strong will of development.
That is about Danang in my perception: young, dynamic and blooming.
Overall, the combination of color parts makes a blossom that represents a charming Danang, an auspicious Danang.
This is also a blossom opening in hearts of tourists when they come to Danang.
Danang is neither a heritage destination like Hue, Quang Nam nor a vibrant, bustling tourist city like Nha Trang but with the sustainable development strategy, the city is building up values of the diversity, the friendliness, the association with heritages, the preservation and consolidation of tradition, the improvement of living standards…
I have read an article introducing that Danang people seem not know how to marketing for tourism. If you ask Danang people what special things Danang has, they may hesitate to give you answer but they can take care of your journey, let you experience and feel on your own. Therefore, good feelings about Danang naturally sprout in your heart.
What are my good feelings? Well, they are… Charming smiles of visitor supporting team, of tourism pedicab riders are very typical for the friendliness of Danang.
Modern, unique bridges reveal the dynamic development of Danang.
White sandy beaches full of sunshine and undiscorvered virgin forests paint the gorgeous natural picture.
Scattered traditional villages which await to be recovered recall the cultural beauty of Quang Da area … Each part, each color, each beauty felt by tourists when they visit Danang opens a petal of sympathetic flower that would be blooming in their heart once they completely feel Danang’s beauties.
Tourists have to utter a compliment “FantastiCity!” or “Fantastic City!”.
Slogan “FantastiCity!” is the combination of “Fantastic” and “City”.
Because having “C” in common, 2 words are joined together to become 1 strange and interesting word that sounds like a noun.
The slogan is easily understandable.
With an exclamation mark at the end, the slogan “FantastiCity!” is a compliment from satisfied and happy tourists.
Slogan “FantastiCity!” represents the philosophy of Danang tourism: The satisfaction and happiness of tourists for their discovery and experience in the fantastic city.
Tuong Performances
FIRST PERFORMANCE: The countryside Picture
Performing organization: NGUYEN HIEN DINH CLASSICAL DRAMA THEATER
An introduction of Vietnamese Classical Drama (” Tuong”), a unique form of traditional stage arts including ” Tuong” extracts, Pieces of traditional musical performance and typical Vietnamese folk dance.
SECOND PERFORMANCE: A Flimpse of VietNam
Performing organization : Minh Nhat arts company
An introduction of traditional costumes and their charming stylizations as well as lively dances of Vietnamese ethnic.
Sky Bar 36 Da Nang
Floor 35 -36, Novotel Danang Premier Han River, 36 Bach Dang Street, Hai Chau District, Da Nang
Bar Water Front
150 – 152 Bach Dang, Hai Chau, Da Nang
Bar New Space
161 Nguyen Tat Thanh, Hai Chau, Da Nang
There are no user’s engagement in 3 months recently, it might be closed, please contact the place before come!
On The Radio Bar/Pub 35 Thai Phien, Hai Chau, Da Nang
Cyclo Tour
Established in 2003, Danang tourism cyclo has been one of the most interesting services in the tour system and local tourist sites.
At the moment, the cyclo team is operated by Danang Center for Tourism Promotion with 70 members with qualified health condition, traffic law, language and first aid, street security.
The whole team is using vehicles which are re-designed, colorful with shade, suitable cushions for guests to travel.
The team members have to wear uniform.
Usually, the team parks in front of the big hotels such as Phuong Dong, Bamboo Green 1, 2, 3, Bach Dang Street, Han River, Sunriver, Green Plaza …
Tourists can use this type of service to explore Danang, especially Cham Sculpture Museum, along Bach Dang Street and Han river, to Pham Van Dong Street to enjoy the sea and outstand seafood, along Nguyen Tat Thanh to enjoy the view of Danang Bay.
Once coming to Danang, there will be a miss for tourists if they do not try to explore Danang on cyclo.
Day time:
– Cham Museum – Bach Dang St – Dong Da St – Ong Ich Khiem St – Hung Vuong St – Tran Phu St – Cham Museum
– Cham Museum – Le Dinh Duong St – Ong Ich Khiem St – Hung Vuong St – Tran Phu St – Cham Museum.
Night time:
– Cyclo team usually parks along Bach Dang St, serve on demand.
Tel: 0905499639 (Mr Thịnh)
Tour Price: 100,000 VND/hour/cyclo
Live Music Café
This is a form of musical performances and enjoyment.
Here, audiences will be able to enjoy many different types of music.
Another type of live music café is for student.
While other famous live music café is for high-end audiences, live music café for student is opened by students themselves and for their own.
Movie Cinema
CVG Cinema
Available for 2D and 3D movies
Tel: (+84)511.3666222 – Fax: (+84)511.3666220
Address: 4th floor at Vinh Trung Plaza, 255-257 Hung Vuong St, Thanh Khe District
Website: www.cgv.vn
CVG VINCOM Da Nang
Available for 2D and 3D movies
Tel: (+84)511 3747 666
Address: 4th floor, Vincom Trade Center Da Nang, Ngo Quyen, Son Tra, Da Nang
Website: www.cgv.vn
Lotte Cinema
Available for 2D and 3D movies
Tel: (+84)511.3679 667 – (+84)511.3679 668 – Fax: (+84)511.3679 669
Address: 5th floor at Lotte Mart Danang, Hai Chau District
Website: www.lottecinemavn.com
Cinezen Cinema
Available for 2D and 3D movies
Tel: (+84) 511.3823317
Address: 82 Tran Phu, Hai Chau Distric
Time: 5.00 PM – 7.30 PM – Ticket price: 30,000 VND/ticket
Le Do Cinema
Loại phim 2D
Tel: (+84)511.3822 574 – Time: 5.00 PM – 7.30 PM
Address: 46 Tran Phu St, Hai Chau District
Ticket price: 30,000 VND/ticket
Seventeen Saloon Bar
Z76 Tran Hung Dao, Son Tra, Da Nang
New Phương Đông Bar
20 Dong Da, Hai Chau, Da Nang
TV Club
118A Nguyen Chi Thanh, Hai Chau, Da Nang
Han River Cruise
Tourist will have a city tour on the Han river and enjoy the unique bridges in Vietnam:
– Han River Bridge: the only swinging bridge in Vietnam, representing the life of Danang City.
– Thuan Phuoc Bride: the longest suspension bridge in Vietnam.
– Dragon Bridge: the biggest steel dragon in the world.
– Tran Thi Ly Bridge: This is a type of cable-stayed bridge with an inclined pylon with 117m high, reflecting the image of a giant sail heading to the ocean.
Currently, Han River Cruise has been an attractive tourism service preferred not only by the local but also tourists coming to Danang.
Services available: food, drink and live music (extra costs depend on visitors’ demand)
http://tourism.danang.vn/en/things-to-do/cuisine/vietnamese-cuisine
Food Discovery
Delicious dishes of Hanoi
These days, when traveling to new places, you can easily find your favorite food to fulfill your stomach almost everywhere.
Still, there are some dishes with particular flavors that cannot be found anywhere unless you have to travel to places where they have been created to enjoy their original tastes.
Below are some tips to taste specialty dishes of Hanoi when you get a chance to visit the capital city of Vietnam
Pho (noodle soup)
Throughout the country, you can easily find yourselves a hot bowl of pho.
Yet if you are a food expert or you have been getting acquainted to the particular tastes of Hanoi pho, you will find that there is no such pho that can have the flavors of the one served in Hanoi.
The light sweet of the hot broth which floods the white rice noodle having particular flavors of Hanoi will bring you the most satisfying feeling.
rice vermicelli served with snails
Being one of the most famous dishes of Hanoi, bun oc can satisfy people at all ages.
The dish, however, is very simple, containing only rice vermicelli, several snails and the sour broth besides some herbs.
vermicelli served with tofu and shrimp paste
A Hanoi dish that makes people want to try immediately only by hearing its name. For a long time, bun dau mam tom has become a specialty that many people have to try whenever setting feet to the capital city.
A set of bun dau mam tom includes a dish of fresh rice vermicelli, fried tofu, shrimp paste mixed with lemon or kumquat juice, raw vegetables, and boiled pork. Some restaurants even add fried fish paste to the set. It will be a big mistake if visitors to Hanoi skip bun dau mam tom.
grilled pork paste served with Vietnamese rice vermicelli
rolled noodles
Apart from the renowned Hanoi pho noodle, pho cuon is not less delicious and its genuine taste can only be found in Hanoi.
Fried beef and herbs are rolled in the while rice paper cake and then the roll is dimmed into a sour and sweet sauce which is added with slices of pickle.
crab noodle soup
A popular street food of Hanoi which is favored by many people. It is not difficult for you to find a bistro or restaurant selling banh da cua at a reasonable cost.
It is a delicious dish with many positive points as it is easy to taste and it neither makes your stomach heavy nor causes you to get tired of eating the food.
The crab noodle soup is normally served with cha lua (Vietnam’s pork sausage), boiled water spinach, bean sprouts, mingled in the mouthwatering aroma of fried shallots and the greasy taste of roasted peanuts.
deep fried fermented pork, grilled fermented pork
Although being considered snack, nem chua is indeed the one-and-only specialty of Hanoi.
If the grilled one has an eye-catching yellow color along with a delicious greasy taste, the fried one has a pink color and brings eaters wonderful flavors created from a combination of pork meat and pigskin.
The two dishes can be found at many restaurants but it is recommended that you should come to the bistro at 36 Tam Thuong Street, Hang Gai Ward, Hoan Kiem District to taste the best fried fermented pork of Hanoi and visit the restaurant at 10 Au Trieu Street in Hoan Kiem District to have the most tasty grilled fermented pork of the capital city.
tofu sweet soup
Appearing in the capital city for several years now, the mixed tofu sweet soup has quickly become a favorite snack to reduce the heat in hot days of young people in Hanoi.
Normally, a bowl of mixed tofu sweet soup includes lotus seed, red bean, jelly, and dried copra. All of those ingredients will then be flooded with the syrup which has the fragrance of jasmine and the greasy coconut milk.
Trang Tien ice cream
The ice cream which for years has “enchanted” so many food lovers.
Trang Tien ice cream is famous for its particular flavors and a quality that cannot be mistaken for any ice cream product of other brands. Speaking of Trang Tien ice cream, people would remember the greasy taste of mung bean, the aroma smell of green rice, the sweet taste of milk chocolate and the light sweet of coconut milk. What makes Trang Tien ice cream a satisfying snack is its cost, which is especially reasonable.
Vietravel organizes Vietnammese Famtrip for delegations from Iran
With the aim of developing and expanding the market to the countries which have potential economy and tourism demand, at the same time, with the support of the Embassy of Vietnam in Iran, Vietravel is honored as an organizational unit and is the main sponsor for Famtrip tourism delegations including tourism companies from Iran.
Accompanying Vietravel also Pelican Cruises ship units (Ha Long), Eldora Hue hotel and Hoi An Beach Resort.
According to the schedule of visiting and working in Vietnam, the delegation will arrive at Noi Bai airport on May 26th, 2016, at 16:15, on flight QR 834.
With six-day cruise of "Hanoi - Ha Long - Hue - Da Nang - Hoi An - Saigon", Vietravel desires to introduce the overview about the beautiful and famous landscapes of Vietnam, thereby promoting the advantages of the new product line for the market that Vietravel intends for Iran tourist season in 2016 and the following years.
Famtrip program takes place in duration of 6 days (from May 26 to May 31, 2016), under which the group will explore the well-known and familiar landmarks through various forms of interconnected trip, this creates a variety of products and brings new feelings to visitors.
With this trip, the delegation will visit city tour of Hanoi, the city with thousand years of civilization, Hoan Kiem Lake, Ngoc Son Temple and Turtle Tower, etc. that carries mysterious history in each story.
Come to Ha Long Bay - World Natural Heritage, which is famous for its spectacular scenery and is one of the most attractive destinations in Southeast Asia.
The delegation can get on a boat and enjoy the system of caves, beaches and beautiful rocky islands such as Ga Choi island, Dog island, Luon cave, Sung Sot Cave, Soi Sim beach, Ti Top beach ... to continue trip, the delegation will arrive to Hue for the Imperial Citadel visiting by tram, visit Thien Mu pagoda.
Departure to Hoi An to visit Tan Ky ancient house, Japanese Covered Bridge, Phuc Kien Assembly Hall, workshops of traditional crafts and colorful market of Hoi An ... the delegation also has a day to discover My Tho, excurse on Tien river and visit Thoi Son islet, honey farm, learn the processes of coconut candy production, enjoy fruits on the orchards and Southern amateur music, and so on.
Besides the examination on some destinations in Hanoi, Ha Long, Hue, Hoi An, My Tho, etc, the delegation of mass media, travel businesses from Iran also has meetings and discussions with Vietravel’s Board of Director at the headquarters.
Accordingly, Vietravel will push to promote the image of Vietnam's tourism further as well as provide useful and necessary information to Iran visitors through the creation of new tourism products; improve the quality of services to increase the number of tourists from Iran to Vietnam.
Reportedly, at Tourism Expo 9th in Tehran (T.I.T.E) that took place from February 16 to February 19, 2016, Vietravel participated and met with Iranian tour operators, through which to learn, construct and develop business between the two parties to promote the potential market.
Business development target in 2016, Vietravel will strive up 30% of passenger arrives and make good use of every opportunity, overcome the challenge to diversify and expand the market; promotion, tourism boosting up; enhancing destination management, In particular, for the segment of Iran customers, Vietravel will continue to promote Vietnam's tourism image and construct a distinctive product with the best service to attract more number of tourists from Iran in the future, and effectively exploit the kind of MICE tours, events ... of this market segment.
For International tourists who are interested in Responsible tours.
In May 2nd 2014, Vietravel organized a responsible tour to Cu Chi for a group of teachers and students coming from Australia.
The group also visited the old battlefield in Long Tan commune, Dat Do district, Ba Ria Vung Tau province.
Many foreign tourists have special concerns about Responsible tours as they could do something to contribute for the local residents.
Responsible tours give tourists new emotional experiences in their life.
The group of 25 Australian teachers and students came to Vietnam to learn about Vietnamese history and carried out numerous charity activities.
The group visited Thien Phuoc house, which is home of disabled children, at Hamlet 6, An Nhon Tay commune, Cu Chi Dist, Ho Chi Minh city.
They also met and helped blinded children and students from a school named Nhat Hong in HCM city center.
In the evening, the group had dinner at KOTO restaurant where street kids are given opportunities to be trained for cooking and serving in a restaurant, to get ready for their future.
Just within some days, the group have connected all three humanity destinations together and made their tour so meaningful.
In the 14-day-long journey, the Australian students also spent time at the Old battlefield at Long Tan commune, Ba Ria Vung Tau Province which used to be a garrisoned place of Australian army during the Vietnam war.
They visited Long Tan Monument, Long Phuoc underground to experience and see the pictures of the old war in underground commander station, emergency stations and battlefield.
Long Tan battlefield is one of the favorite destinations for Australian tourists.
Besides, the worldwide famous Cu Chi tunnels were also visited as they could give them clear ideas of how severe the war was and how brave and creative the Vietnamese guerillas were in the war.
The tour “Visiting the old battlefield” seems not only for veterans but also for pupils, students- a young generation who don’t know much about wars happening in the past. They come to learn about the history of Vietnam, and the most important thing is to love the peace gained from harsh fighting in wars.
It is the purpose why Vietravel have designed numerous responsible tours to many historical places in Vietnam, which are the milestones in the country’s history.
MORE NEW AIR WAYS SHANGHAI- DANANG AND FUZHOU - HCMC
On Mar 31, 2014, two new airways from Shanghai to Danang and from Fuzhou to HCMC will officially come into operation simultaneously.
This is the sign to show that Vietnam is the focus point that Chinese tourists are heading for in 2014. Vietravel is cooperating with Vietnam Airlines and Spring Travel in China to efficiently exploit this world most populous market.
There will be 150 guests on the direct airway from Shanghai to Danang,.
Among them are 10 journalists from various newspapers and TV stations in Shanghai including Shanghai Morning Post; Xinmin Evening News; Travel+Leisure; Tourism World; Oriental Metropolis Broadcast; Spring Airlines; Changzhou TV (CTV) and Spring Airlines Magazine to promote for this event.
The flight from Shanghai to Da Nang operated by Spring Airlines wears number 9C8909, which is going to land at Da Nang Airport at 23h35 on March 31/2014.
As intended, the leaders from the Ministry of Culture-Sport-Tourism of Danang city and Vietravel Group as well as a huge number of journalists in Da Nang will be receiving this delegation.
According to the news from Spring Airlines, the airways from Shanghai to Ho Chi Minh city are proposed to commence end of June this year.
At the same time in Ho Chi Minh city, there will be also a reception of the first 180 guests from Fuzhou to Ho Chi Minh on the flight number VN 487, which is landing at Tan Son Nhat airport at 01:10 on April 1/2014.
This is the first group of guests travelling on this direct airway exploited by the cooperation between Vietnam Airlines and Vietravel Group.
VIETRAVEL PROUD TO TAKE LOGISTICS ASSIGNMENT CATERING FOR THE GREAT FESTIVAL VESAK 2014
On March 4, 2014, Buddhist Sagha of Vietnam has officially assigned Vietravel to be in charge of logistics for the great festival UN Vesak 2014 which will be organized in Vietnam. This is a great religious event attracting a great number of delegates, Buddhist scholars and Buddhist followers from around the world.
The great festival UN Vesak 2014 will be happening in Bai Dinh Pagoda, Ninh Bình from May 8- 10, 2014.
There are about 1.500 delegates from 100 nations and territories to attend this festival. Besides, there are also about 8.500 delegates, Buddhist monks and nuns from Vietnam to join them.
The main theme of this great festival is to contribute to achieve the development targets in this millennium of the United Nations, to promote the relationship between Buddhist Sagha of Vietnam and other countries around the world, to show the responsibility of Vietnam towards the United Nations, to introduce Vietnamese country and people with their traditional and Buddhistical culture and history, to develop the potentials of spiritual tourism, to popularize tourism image of Ninh Binh, to campaign the world and UNESCO to recognize Trang An attractions to be the World Natural Heritage.
According to the evaluations from the Ministry of Culture- Sport- Tourism and Ministry of Transportation, Buddhist Sagha of Vietnam has highly evaluated the good organizing skills of Vietravel through huge international events like Apec 2006, UN Vesak 2008. Once again, Vietravel has been officially assigned to take care of all the logistics including popularizing activities, handling all the transportations, providing accommodation, air tickets and 7 extra sightseeing programs for both international as well as domestic delegates and monks who attend this great Festival.
CHINESE VISITORS LOOK TOWARD VIETNAM TOURISM
From 7th to 13th March 2014, Vietravel will welcome a group of 10 reporters from Fuzhou city to Ho Chi Minh City for their 6-day trip to explore major highlights in Ho Chi Minh City such as Notre Dame Cathedral, the Central Post Office, the Reunification Palace, HCMC People’s Committee Head Office, Chinatown, Thean Hou Temple; Ho Tram and Vung Tau.
This is a trip to familiarize Fuzhou city local people with Ho Chi Minh City and Vung Tau, and to prepare for chartered direct flights from Fuzhou city to Ho Chi Minh City.
The first flight is expected to arrive in Ho Chi Minh City on March 31st 2014.
China, which is the most populous country in the world, is a market most expected by many countries, especially in the period of economic crisis as present.
One of Vietravel’s major partners in China such as Spring Travel whose headquarter is located in Shanghai and Beijing, has regarded Vietnam as a strategic destination for years. Accordingly, with their strong capacity, they have promoted direct flights from China to Vietnam departing from Beijing, Shanghai, Chengdu, Guangzhou, and have continued to open other airline routes from Zhejiang, Jiangsu, Shenzhen, Kunming to Vietnam.
With average periods of stay from 3 to 8 days, Chinese visitors are interested in exploring Vietnam or Vietnam combined with Cambodia tour.
Chinese visitors coming to Vietnam are most interested in beach travel, enjoying seafood and shopping.
The most favorite destinations are Nha Trang and Da Nang, and the destination chosen for shopping is Ho Chi Minh City.
Shopping products attracting these visitors shopping include souvenirs, wooden handicrafts, processed products such as coffee, dried cuttlefish, dried shrimp, dried jackfruit, especially milk, as according to Chinese visitors, milk made in Vietnam is safer.
Flights from Shanghai to Da Nang, and from Fuzhou to Ho Chi Minh City will be started on March 31st 2014.
This is signalized that Vietnam is currently a focal point that Chinese visitors who are looking toward in 2014 and Vietravel is conducting corresponding investment to coordinate with its partners in China to effectively exploit this market through charter flights with thicker frequency in the coming time from July to October 2014.
Vietravel upgrades a Branch office in Phu Quoc Island
To perfect its nation wide network and to better the service in the West South region, Vietravel upgrades its transaction office into a Branch Office.
Now, Vietravel has a full network from Lao Cai province in the North to Ca Mau, Phu Quoc provinces in the South which is the biggest travel organization in Vietnam.
Phu Quoc has a lot of historical relics named “Red addresses” which attract many travelers.
Besides, Phu Quoc owns a wealthy tourism property of natural beaches including Bai Truong, Bai Sao, Bai Khem, Bai Gieng Tien, Bai Rach Vem. The best beautiful beach is Bai Dai on the North of the island, which was reported by ABC News Australia as one of top ten World’s natural and beautiful beaches.
With its available tourism advantages, for years Phu Quoc has been invested in infrastructure, construction of international airport, restaurants and hotels to attract tourists.
Also, famous airlines support to open direct routes from HCMC, Can Tho province, Hanoi to this island. This active action helps Phu Quoc to be one of the best destinations in Vietnam.
According to current survey, foreigners consider Phu Quoc island as the ideal address in Vietnam, along with Nha Trang, Danang.
The first direct airline route from Russia to Phu Quoc opened on 14 Feb 2014. This confirms that Phu Quoc is the ideal destination of 2014, promises a lot of tourism development in the coming year.
Playing as the pioneer in developing tourism industry and support regions to promote their tourism, Vietravel opened its office in Phu Quoc Island in 2009.
The office has been providing tourism services to local people and developing domestic and inbound business of Vietravel.
Realizing the new trend of tourism development in the island, Vietravel upgraded its office into a Branch office.
At a bigger scale, the office belongs directly to the Vietravel Head Office. Vietravel pays a special attention to the destination, hoping to better its service quality with more professional performance.
Vietravel develops tourism in North Central region of Vietnam
Nghe An province, a North Central region of Vietnam has potential tourism power in with beautiful beach, botanical diversity, exotic culture. On 21 Feb, 2014, Vietravel leader and officers of Nghe An province conducted a meeting of cooperation in promoting and developing tourism of this region in 2014.
Nghe An province’s opportunities of sustainable tourism development
In the meeting, Nghe An province’s officers presented about this region’s potential chance for tourism development in the coming year.
Nghe An locates in the North Central region of Vietnam, its convenient transportation system plays as the door of economic corridor among Mekong countries including Vietnam, Lao, Thailand, Myanmar.
It could be developed to be an attractive destination for inbound and domestic tourism business.
In additional, Nghe An has strong power of adventurous and leisure tourism thanks to its natural resource of beautiful beaches and primeval forest with vast botanical diversity.
UNESCO listed Pu Mat National Park, Phu Huong national reserve, Pu Hoat forest in its list of World Network of Biosphere Reserves.
Nghe An province is famous for its great people and heroic history. It has 1,395 historical and cultural relics, 132 of which have been listed National relics.
Also, Nghe An owns numerous intangible and cultural relics to attract tourists.
With such tourism power, Nghe An province have potential advantages to develop long term tourism, create its own and unique tourism products.
It is an ideal destination for those travelers love fresh and adventurous trips.
Vietravel – an active partner to develop tourism in Nghe An province
Realizing the region’s tourism opportunities, in May 2013, Vietravel opened a branch office in Vinh city, Nghe An province to perfect with its nation wide network as the best tourism agent in Vietnam.
The branch office has run effective business of serving the local people’s demand of travelling, played a bridge office to welcome foreign tourists to this province.
After the meeting with Nghe An province’s officers, Vietravel decided to promote the market to tourists from Hanoi, Southern provinces, Laos and Thailand.
Vietravel plans to support Nghe An province to design leisure, cultural and eco-tours.
This is a step for Vietravel to open new tours to the nearby markets of Quang Binh, Hue, Vietnam-Laos-Thailand with the transit Nghe An branch office.
Vietravel celebrates the first working day after Tet
In the morning 5th Feb, 2014, at the head office of Vietravel and its nationwide branch offices, the staffs celebrated the first working day in the beautiful spring.
After Tet holiday, Vietravel staffs with bright smiles willingly and happily greeted each other and promised new success.
At the head office in HCMC, in the very first working day, Mr.Nguyen Quoc Ky, General Director played as the representative leader, gave the best wish of good health, prosperity and happiness to all of his followers. He also thanked the best staffs and groups who presented the most active achievement in the high tourism season of Tet holiday 2014.
Following the good Vietnamese tradition, Vietravel’s directors give lucky money to all the staffs.
In nationwide branch offices, Vietravel staffs officially started the New Year on 5th Feb.
The company is ready to welcome and give services to customers in the New Year.
Vietravel staffs hope to be the best companion with tourists in all the journeys and commit to provide the best services to meet all the customers’ need anytime and anywhere.
The New Year started, Vietravel wish all the best and good luck to all.
Some images of the first working day in Vietravel’s head office and branch offices:
Staffs came early to met and wished each other a good New Year.
The spring appears everywhere
Vietravel’s leaders gave best wishes to their staffs.
Vietravel’s Leaders and officer of Labor Committee granted lucky money to staffs.
In Vietravel’s nationwide branch offices, its staffs happily started the New Year.
Leaders in branch office set meeting and sent their staffs with best wishes in the New Year.
In the very first working day, a lot of customers came to Vietravel office and bought tour in Spring.
The good first day promised a successful New Year to come.
VIETRAVEL OPENED NEW BOOKING OFFICE IN CHAU DOC
On the 28 December 2013 Vietravel officially opened a new booking office in Chau Doc, the capital city of An Giang province.
This is the 2nd point of interaction of Vietravel in An Giang and the 5th in the Mekong Delta region.
Vietravel’s liaison office and tour desk in Chau Doc is the 5th of its kind in the Mekong Delta region besides other branch offices which have been running in Can Tho, Long Xuyen, Phu Quoc and Ca Mau.
The office in Chau Doc is located at 69 Chi Lang Street, Chau Phu A Ward, Chau Doc City, An Giang Province.
At this tour desk tourists will be conveniently provided with all enquiries concerning air and train tickets, visa service, transportation, hotel booking and restaurant reservation.
In addition to the introduction of domestic and outbound tour programs to the locals, Vietravel Chau Doc would develop and offer to both local and overseas tourists unique travel products with local distinctions so tourists would have more choices.
Vietravel Chau Doc continues the pioneer spirit of Vietravel in the investment and development of new tourist attractions, making a contribution to An Giang’s tourism industry in the competitiveness in serving customers.
At the same time, tourists will have the opportunity to experience the unspoiled beauty with significant culture of the dwellers in the Mekong river basin, the land that bears the profound imprint of centuries old traditions.
The event of launching Vietravel office in Chau Doc, once again marked a milestone in the continuous development of Vietravel with the orientation towards customers’ benefit.
Vietravel is proud to be the travel company in Vietnam with most extensive presence network with the total of 47 offices inside and outside Vietnam.
In 2013 Vietravel opened and brought in to operation a series of booking offices nationwide: Tan Binh District in HCM City, Ba Ria City in Vung Tau, Lien Chieu District in Danang, Phan Thiet in Binh Thuan, Hai Phong, Vinh, Ca Mau and Chau Doc.
With the steady development of the network, Vietravel Chau Doc will certainly answer to the demand of tourists from Chau Doc and contribute to the local tourism industry in An Giang. The office helps promote to tourists around the world the beauty and attractiveness in the culture, history, the image and friendly people of An Giang province.
Contact information:
Vietravel Chau Doc
69 Chi Lang Street, Chau Phu A Ward, Chau Doc City, An Giang Province.
Tel: (076) 3569588; Fax: (076) 3569566
SWEATERS FOR POOR PUPILS IN SAPA
In the chilly cold weather of the 28 December 2012, the tourist group of Vietravel consisting of many expats has arrived at Ta Phin Junior School, Sapa District to bring aids to the children here.
This is the first departure in the program called “Spring for Compassion” by Vietravel.
Aids including sweaters, winter boots, instant noodle, boxed milk were given to poor children in Ta Phin.
In the recent snowfall, Ta Phin was one of the villages suffering badly. Poor children did not have good sweaters to go to school, many had to skip classes and stay home as outside was too cold.
Mr. Ha Tien Dung, Principal of Ta Phin Junior School said there had been some philanthropists who conducted activities at the school.
The visit of Vietravel group was much appreciated and the support was meaningful as it helped poor children to keep their schooling uninterrupted through the cold winter.
For many years, Vietravel always pay a close attention to charity work at poor villages in the mountain province of Lao Cai, specially the district of Sapa, Muong Khuong and Simacai.
Combining travel and charity is a solution to socialize charity and community sharing, where the travel company and its tourists join hands to give aids to people in need during a trip. This is one of the objectives that Vietravel is aiming at.
The company hoped there would be more tourists joining the program and more support reaching children and people in Lao Cai.
Below are some images of Vietravel tourists coming to the poor children at Ta Phin village.
The cold of the Far North mountains was driven away by the appearance of kind-hearted tourists.
The tourists giving sweaters and sharing compassion to children in Ta Phin
The joyful smile of a pupil when receiving gift.
Vietravel tour group in a photo with the children in Ta Phin
VIETRAVEL WON TOP PLACE OF E-COMMERCE AWARD FOR TOURISM
This is the 5th year ECAwards has been organized by HCMC Department of Industry and Commerce to honor businesses having efficient investment in e-commerce system.
Vietravel won the top place for implementation of modern technology in tour operation business, and the company also won the title of “Outstanding website and online service” for the 5th time.
On the 26 December 2013, the award presenting ceremony for “Outstanding website and online service” took place at Kim Do Hotel (HCM City). The event was held by HCM City Department of Industry and Commerce.
At top place of the tourism industry was Vietravel’s online retail site www.travel.com.vn.
This is the 2nd time in a row Vietravel received this honorable title.
According to the Organizer, Vietravel’s online retail site www.travel.com.vn scored highest count with 3,796 votes from consumers and also obtained highest score from the judges 75.4.
As commented by the Organizer, Vietravel has built a website with outstanding functions to optimize necessary support for online buyers. The website has no geographic restriction and supports multiple payment modes. This offered great convenience for customers and helped establish online buying habit for Vietnamese consumers. The recorded transactions increased in number every year making the investment much more efficient than the expansion of office network which is the strategy of many other travel companies today.
Representative of Vietravel receiving ECAwards
Designed and programmed with customer-oriented philosophy, www.travel.com.vn is not only user friendly but also has an edge in keeping the user browsing within the site.
To do that, the site is fed with daily news, events and updates for many subjects including travel information, destination reports, video clips and particularly a rich directory of more than 1,000 tour programs for customers to choose.
Just click on the departure city, name of the program, preferred time of departure, or preferred cost, www.travel.com.vn immediately produces solutions.
Most attractive could be the Promotion section, the promise land for deal hunters.
Promotional packages offering incredible discounts with the same service quality are what keep the user coming back every day to shop and expect new deals.
The award affirmed the efficiency and user friendliness of the website www.travel.com.vn
With an edge on search speed of no more than 5 seconds and user friendly interface, www.travel.com.vn won extra points for simple booking procedure allowing much more convenience for users.
Of great importance, online payment module was protected by strict security solutions ensuring absolute confidentiality regarding transaction data and personal information.
Vietravel online booking page is the only one that supports most reliable payment service providers including VISA Credit, VISA Debit, MasterCard Credit, OnePay, 123Pay, Diners Club International Credit, JCB Credit, and American Express Credit.
The site is also connected to most domestic banks and popular international banks to facilitate the buying procedure for any user from anywhere in the world.
Being a smart system, understanding users’ demands and behaviors, www.travel.com.vn is truly a convenient tool for travel booking.
Even senior people who are quite reluctant to online procedures can easily check out information and book a tour for themselves.
Tourists can easily find information and book tour at Vietravel
Voting for the 5th ECAwards started in October and ended in November 2013.
In spite of such a short period of time, there were as many as 73 businesses from various industries participating the event.
This year is the Department of Industry and Commerce will make a proposal for HCM City People’s Committee to recognize businesses in the city who have outstanding achievements and contributions to the development of e-commerce activity.
ECAwards truly became a playground for digital technology, helping improve efficiency in business activities and give an impetus to the creativity and investment from businesses. ECAwards also contributes to the image of Vietnam e-commerce platform, continuously improving to cope with the competition in the region.
OPENING OF VIETRAVEL CUP 2013 – VIETNAM OUTSTANDING TENNIS PLAYERS
On 24 December 2013, the opening ceremony of Vietravel Cup 2013 took place at Phu Tho Tennis Club, Ly Thuong Kiet street. The ceremony was followed by the first tournaments between Vietnam’s outstanding players.
Tennis is a favorite sport for many people. The tournaments are the opportunity to improve health and skill, and just as good, opportunity to promote the image of a dynamic Vietnam in different arenas within the region or worldwide.
Over the years, Vietnam tennis has made firm steps forwards and somehow has been able to answer to the expectation of supporters. Vietnam tennis is developing along the course of professionalism which has been seen through national leagues and especially through excellent achievements at international tournaments such as the recent Davis Cup.
All those events played a part in promoting this sport at national scale.
With the purpose of promoting the image of Vietnam sporting spirit, over many years, Vietravel has been the leading travel agency who accompanied significant sports events with great popularity such as AFF Cup, SEA Games, Euro Cup, World Cup. Vietravel organized tours for supporter groups to attend some world class tennis tournaments including Australia Open, Rolland Garros, US Open, etc. In Vietnam, Vietravel is the main sponsor for national tennis tournaments of Vietnam Tennis Federation (VTF) from 2012 to 2015.
Being responsible to the environment and the community, Vietravel is proud to take part in the support for different activities of VTF in order to encourage the improvement of Vietnam tennis players.
Vietravel is committed to go along with Vietnam tennis in all significant events for a common goal which is the development of Vietnam athletics.
Some images of the opening ceremony:
Ms. Tran Thi Viet Huong, Deputy Director of PR Department
The Organizer presenting flowers to player teams..
CELEBRATION NIGHT OF VIETRAVEL’S 18TH ANNIVERSARY (20 DEC 1995 – 20 DEC 2013)
On 20 December 2013, in the event of Vietravel’s 18th Anniversary, many activities have taken place in Vietravel offices nationwide.
In HCM City, hundreds of Vietravel staff have had a special night of gathering.
Following is a series of photo reporting this meaningful event.
Congratulations to Vietravel, 18 years of continuous effort by generations of management and workers.
Hundreds of staff and managers gathered at the event in family spirit.
Raising voice in the song "Vietravel We are one - We are the one, ready for any challenge to be the pioneer.
Vietravel’s CEO, Mr.Nguyen Quoc Ky recalling the long journey, when steering the ship of Vietravel through troubled waters.
VIETRAVEL’S PRIDE: 18 YEAR JOURNEY TO SUCCESS
At the age of 18, Vietravel is filled with the energy of a growing youth who is living up to the mission of contributing for a better community, living up to the responsibility of self-improvement for the satisfaction of tourists.
The 18 year journey of Vietravel is a dream for any business, not only for how fast the company has grown or for the honorable national and international awards, but for the success in conquering the hearts of hundreds of thousands tourists for a sustainable development.
Vietravel and the mission of a pioneer.
Anyone would say a new road will be full of hardship, challenges and chances of failure. However, where there is a will there is a way. Set your heart and go all out for it, you will finally overcome the obstacles to arrive at the finish line.
Vietravel set its heart to be a pioneer and marched on its course with unsurpassed determination and steaming energy in its veins.
Starting with 10 million VND, Vietravel scored 55 billion of sales in 2000, 370 billion in 2005 and accessed the leading position of Vietnam’s tourism industry with 1,480 billion in 2010. Records were set to be hit: 2,000 billion of sales in 2011, 2,500 billion in 2012 and, the company is trying to hit 3,000 billion for 2013.
Numbers are only numbers, but growing 300,000 times bigger in 18 years is really something to admire.
The success came from smart strategy of market development in all domestic, outbound and inbound travel; the continuous expansion of the retail network facilitating the direct contact with tourists; a flexible product policy; and especially the uncompromising commitment to service quality and professionalism.
If the history were converted to a screenplay, the director could have to spend a lot of thoughts on how to depict the rugged journey of a pioneer who put on his own shoulders a great mission. The company is striving for professionalism, while continuously utilizing its competitive strengths to ensure inspiration and added values for its customers.
Generations of employees join the company one after another, but together they made Vietravel a big family with love and sharing.
No one ever complained about the hardship as they all understood that was where they should get better than what they were.
If it was a midnight arrival, the tourguide wouldn’t mind leaving home and rushing through late streets to pick up the tourists. He had to count on his family members who took care of the family when he was away. There were sales reps that burst out in tears when she received a compliment from her customers. There were evenings when one could have been at home for dinner, but many managers and employees still worked at their desk to get the job done.
That sacrifice has been rewarded when the company received honorable titles and recognitions from tourists, the media, the industry authorities and the government.
Have a look back. The last 18 years were a series of adversities, from the economy crisis in the region in 1997, the bird flu epidemic in the next years, and the worldwide crisis which swept away a great number of businesses. Somehow, Vietravel was able to withstand the profound recession thanks to its all out effort and the collective strength of the management and the staff.
The success was beyond expectation. Vietravel possesses priceless assets that any other company must covet: a strong team, a strong customer base and a strong business culture.
More than 1,000 employees are committed to the mission: responsibility towards the environment and the community. This army is marching to its target from little things that contribute to the mission and it has a strong support from the customers as the foothold for to realize its goals.
Vietravel - Customer oriented philosophy and the art of listening
Looking at things from the angle of its customers and listening to the demand, Vietravel was always trusted by the customers.
After 18 years of hard work, Vietravel has become not only the flagship of Vietnam tourism industry but also taken a part in promoting the image of Vietnam tourism to a new height with new goals and mission.
One after another, new offices of Vietravel has been springing up inside and outside Vietnam.
Vietravel was able to establish its brandname even in Cambodia, Thailand, USA. By 2013, Vietravel has expanded the network to as many as 47 offices nationwide from Lao Cai to Ca Mau.
The challenges in a larger playground have been defined, on the other hand, a thousand staff of Vietravel are firm with their course, striving to become Vietnam’s first multi-national travel company in 2015 and one of top ten leading tour operators in Asia by 2020.
To reinforce its commitment, in 2011 Vietravel made a breakthrough achievement and became one of the top 16 leading tour operators in Asia, winner of TTG Awards.
In the next 2 consecutive years 2012 &amp; 2013 Vietravel continued to receive the title “Best Travel Agency – Vietnam” from TTG.
On top of that, Vietravel became the first and only travel company in Vietnam who won the World Travel Awards 2013.
The greater the honor, the greater the responsibility to maintain its leading position and the values that make the company as it is now: professionalism, inspiration, added values.
If one thinks about top 10 most significant events of Vietnam tourism industry in 2013, Vietravel deserved to be the owner of one among those.
Vietravel has arrived at the beautiful age of 18, energetic and matured enough to write up extraordinary stories for Vietnam tourism.
Happy birthday to Vietravel. The pioneer will always be the leader representing the pride of Vietnam, the pride of Vietravel.
EXCITMENT AT VIETRAVEL GAMES 2013
To celebrate the 18th Anniversary (20 December 1995 – 20 December 2013), hundreds of Vietravel staff have participated in company’s activities.
The event is not only a page mark in Vietravel history but also a typical example for a modern environment of business culture while, nevertheless, honoring the country’s traditional values.
Warm and cheerful in family atmosphere awaiting the 18th Anniversary, Vietravel organized a variety of playgrounds where the staff meet, participate in contests and perform their gifted ability. Theses events include “Vietravel Games 2013”, “Stage Performance Contest”, and a writing contest “Vietravel’ Pride – The Mirror Around Me” to honor employees who set good example about work morale.
On the 14 December 2013 at Phu Tho Stadium, HCM City, the opening ceremony of Vietravel Games 2013 took place with the presence of hundreds of Vietravel staff.
The games started from the 9 and ends on the 18 December 2013. Vietravel’s athlets compete at 6 games including footsal, badminton, tennis, bowling, pingpong, and machine jogging.
These sports are favored by many employees and have become their daily training schedule.
The contests were scheduled at professional sport centers such as Phu Tho Stadium, Saigon Superbowl, Phan Dinh Phung Sport Club and Vietravel’s own modern gymnasium.
The purpose of the games is to create healthy playgrounds for recreation and improvement of personal relationship within the company.
Some images at Vietravel Games 2013:
Vietravel Games is an annual activity to provide healthy activity for the staff.
The Organizers presented flower and trophies to representatives of the games.
Mr. Nguyen Minh Ngoc, Deputy General Director in his opening speech.
Representative of the athlets saying the pledge.
Many tournaments took place right after the opening ceremony.
Men footbal.
Success to the games.
Earlier, on the 13 December 2013 the Stage Performance Contest took place at the company head office with more than 40 acts elaborately put up and practiced by many teams and departments.
To bring in a special element, Vietravel organized the writing contest named “Vietravel’s Pride – The Mirrors Around Me” in order to honor individuals and teams who significantly contributed to the development of the company. The writings from many angles have revealed countless examples of quiet contribution of many people. In despite of the differences in postions, departments, tasks, etc., they all looked to the same direction and together put their hand in for a same cause. The writing contest also manifested the determination of each and every employee in sharing the long term vision of the company which is the responsibility towards the enviroment and the community.
Although as amateur as it is, the contest drew a great deal of attention and encouragement from the staff with more than 400 contest articles submitted.
The people featured in these pieces of writing are those who quietly give a hand to the steady development of Vietravel’s culture, raising the Company to the height of a flagship in Vietnam’s tourism industry, to the position of a pioneer conquering the world.
Congrats to Vietravel for the 18th Anniversary.
SIGHTS AND SOUNDS AT VIETRAVEL STAGE PERFOMANCE CONTEST 2013
Part of the series of activities to celebrate the 18th Anniversary of Vietravel (20 Dec 1995 – 20 Dec 2013) Vietravel has organized a stage performance contest within the company.
On the 13 December 2013 the first round of the contest took place in exciting and colorful atmosphere.
The contests brought to the stage more than 40 performances and acts which were all elaborately set up by different departments.
The performances depicted the beauty of the country, the image of Vietnam tourism, and the sentiment towards the company.
The judges would pick out the outstanding acts for the final round on the 18 December 2013 before going to the grand stage on the anniversary evening.
Some images of the first round in Vietravel Stage Performance Contest 2013.
VIETRAVEL TO PARTICIPATE DONG NAI 3RD FOOD FESTIVAL 2013
From 12 to 15 December 2013 Vietravel Dong Nai officially welcomes visitors from within Dong Nai as well as other provinces to come and visit Vietravel’s studio at Dong Nai’s 3rd Food Festival 2013.
During the festivity days, Vietravel organizes various publicity activites to introduce new features of Spring 2014 tour series, as well as a grand promotion for the New Year 2014.
This is also the occasion when Vietravel Dong Nai makes further propaganda about the responsibility program called “Go Green in Tourism” to the visitors of the festival.
Dong Nai’s 3rd Food Festival 2013
The week of Food Festival in Dong Nai takes place from 12 – 15 December 2013, being an annual activity of Dong Nai’s Department of Culture, Sport and Tourism. The event features many interesting activities in order to introduce about the land and the people in Dong Nai and other provinces in the eastern part of Southern Vietnam, also to promote tourism to various attractions in the territories. Significant activities include the food court, Vietnam Guiness registration for the largest platter of Bien Hoa pomelo salad, celebration for Long Khanh rambuttan and Tan Trieu pomelo as Vietnam’s top 50 best fruits, cooking contest, fruit decoration contest, etc.
At Vietravel’s studio, tourists can pick up leaflets presenting new tour series for the New Year including both domestic programs and outbound holidays. Tourists can also check out with Vietravel travel experts about nay information necessary for their coming trips, from air tickets, train tickets etc., to a professional diving course at a magnificent marine park. If the visitors have some minutes to spend, or just to rest the legs, they can get even more vision about Vietravel’s products and intersting destintions via the short movie shown at the studio.
“Happy New Year &amp; Prosperous Spring”
From 10 December 2013 onward, Vietravel officially kicked off the grand promotion program name “Happy New Year &amp; Prosperous Spring” as a thank-you gesture and wishes to the customers who have been with the companies over the time.
“New Year – New Bike – New Luck” is another new year message for a shocking promotion with 13 brandnew trendy Vespa Primaver given out for 13 consecutive weeks.
Right at Vietravel Dong Nai’s studio, visitors can also collect information and detailed advise about the promotional activities for Spring 2014. This is the most impressive promotion applicable nationwide now.
As said, 13 Vespa Primaver for 13 weeks.
Vietravel Dong Nai continues “Go Green in Tourism”
In favor of the national program for responsible travel, under the placard “Go Green in Tourism” Vietavel will join hand with Dong Nai’s Department of Culture, Sport and Tourism to promote the program “Travel with responsibility to the environment” in the Food Festival week.
The event takes place at the main stage of Buu Long Park, starting with more than 250 youth volunteers including Vietravel staff spreading out to collect rubbish on many roads in Dong Nai, to name a few, Buu Long – Huynh Van Nghe – Cau Moi – Cach Mang Thang Tam – The People’s Commitee Office.
Vietravel also distributes bio-degradable bags for private vendors along main streets followed by propaganda teams going to business offices.
“VIETRAVEL AND VIETNAM’S TALENTS” SCHOLARSHIP PRESENTATION IN HA NOI AND DA NANG.
On the 2nd and 9th December 2013 Vietravel celebrated the presentation of “Vietravel and Vietnam’s Talents” scholarship to support disadvantaged students who scored outstanding results in their courses in Hanoi and Danang.
There were 16 scholarships granted by Vietravel in this occasion in the North and Central Vietnam.
In an effort to provide better support to disadvantaged pupils and college students, encouraging them to work better at school so to help themselves, their own families and contribute to the community, Vietravel’s leaders and staff have contributed to the “Vietravel and Vietnam’s Talents” scholarship and raised a total 1 billion VND fund.
This program was kicked off since 2012 and the spirit has been disfused across the community calling for further concern for the students with limited conditions.
In 2013, Vietravel continuedthe program and increased the number of scholarships to 46 students.
On the 9th December 2013 at Hoa Binh Hotel (27 Ly Thuong Kiet, Hanoi) Vietravel Hanoi presented the scholarship to 7 disadvantaged pupils and students from northern provinces who earn outstanding scores in the schooling year 2012 – 2013.
On the 10th Decembern 2013 at Danag University of Economics, Vietravel Danang presented the scholarship to 9 disadvantaged students who excellently scored 25 points and above in this year’s intake exam and undergraduates who obtained 8.0 points for annual average score.
Earlier, Vietravel presented the scholarship to 10 students in the Mekong Delta provinces.
In collaboration with Tuoi Tre Newspaper, the Company extended its support to another 20 students in the program known as “schooling aids”.
In a nutshell, the series of scholarship activities of Vietravel in 2013 has successfully concluded with 46 students being entitled.
Each of the award conveyed profound meaning of sharing and encouragement for the students to overcome adversity and perform well at school.
There are still a lot of help needed from the community. Vietravel will continue to expand the program so that many more people can join hands in contributing for a better community.
VIETRAVEL – TO INAUGURATE THE 5TH BRANCH IN SOUTHERNWESTERN REGION
The sixth of December 2013 witnessed the official inauguration ceremony of Vietravel Tourism Company’s branch in Ca Mau province which is situated at the end point of the country, marking Vietravel’s network spreading nationwide from Lao Cai to Phu Quoc and emphasizing Vietravel always’ being by your side and being available everywhere to serve a wide range of customers and tourists.
This is the 5th branch in Southwestern region besides branches brought into operation in Can Tho, Long Xuyen, Chau Doc and Phu Quoc.
Vietravel’s office residing at No.90, Tran Hung Dao Street, Ward 5, Ca Mau Province will provide tourists with convenience, comforts and satisfaction regarding travel services such as travel tour, airplane tickets, train tickets, visa services, transportation, lodging and accomodation, cuisine, et cetera.
In addition to the introduction of outbound and inbound travel tour to local people, Vietravel’s branch in Ca Mau will constantly develop and offer locally unique travel products to tourists domestically and internationally under new tours types such as Ca Mau – Hon Da Bac, Ca Mau – A day of salt-marsh forest discovery (experience and cuisine tour), Ca Mau – U Minh Ha, etc.
These can be considered as totally new tour products to Ca Mau destination that only Vietravel acts as the forerunner to initiate.
Tourist will be offered awesome opportunties to experience wild beauty and waterway features of the Southern pole land of the country together with Southern cultural delicacy marked time by time
Bringing another Vietravel’s branch in Ca Mau province into operation once again highlighted Vietravel’s increasing development and assertation for its mission towards customers.
Furthermore, under the target of development in attachment with business localization, each Vietravel’s branch makes its good performance on behalf of Vietravel to serve customer’s requirement at the best.
Vietravel takes pride in occupying the most largest network of at home and abroad offices and transaction branches in Vietnam composing of 47 transaction agencies and branches.
In 2013, Vietravel constantly inaugurates and brings its offices and branches into operation in national scale such as Tan Binh Tourism Registration Office in Tan Binh District, Ba Ria Tourism Registration Office in Ba Ria City, Lien Chieu Tourism Registration Office in Da Nang city, Phan Thiet Vietravel’s branch, Hai Phong Vietravel’s branch, Vinh Vietravel’s branch.
Along the full expansion of offices and branches all over the country, Vietravel’s branch in Ca Mau makes sure to offer tourists satisfaction everytime everywhere.
Several photos taken in the inauguration ceremony:
The inauguration ceremony warmly welcomed attendants from Vietravel’s leaders, local authority, customers and local people
Mr. Nguyen Minh Ngoc – Deputy Director of Vietravel spoke at the openning ceremony for inaugurating Vietravel’s branch in Ca Mau
Mr. Nguyen Truong Luu – Deputy Director of Ca Mau Trade and Tourism Promotion Center spoke for congratulations on Vietravel’s new branch inauguration
Vietravel’s representative, local authority and honor guests cut ceremony ribbon
On this occasion, Vietravel also awarded ten scholarships for poor but hard-working local students
Teacher Nguyen Thien Nghia – Vice President of Ca Mau Economics and Technology Vocational College conveyed his sincere thanks to Vietravel for awarding scholarships for students of the School
Vietravel’s representative awarded scholarships to students
Mr. Nguyen Minh Ngoc – Deputy General Director of Vietravel awarded memorial medals to guests.
Ca Mau Vietravel’s representative awarded memorial medals to close customers
Right after the inauguration ceremony, a lot of customesr went to the branch to order tours in Ca Mau Vietravel
Contact Information:
Ca Mau Vietravel’s Branch
90 Tran Hung Dao, Ward 5, Ca Mau City
Tel: (07803) 660.438 - 660.439 - 552.239 – 552.259;
Fax: (07803) 552.298
Email: vtvcamau@vietravel.com.vn
(Source: Communication Department, Vietravel)
VIETRAVEL TO PROMOTE TOURISM IN CENTRAL HIGHLAND PROVINCES
In coordination with Department of Culture, Sports and Tourism of Lam Dong, Daklak provinces and Vietnam Airlines, Viettravel Tourism Company organized an investigation program for reporter groups to explore spectacular and eye-catching features in the itinerary of Ban Me Thuot – Da Lat from the second to sixth of November, 2013.
This is regarded as one of significant events contributing to the introduction of Da Lat Plateau and Central Highland Tourism, ready for the preparation of National Tourism Year in Central Highland 2014 and welcoming the cerebration event of 120 years of Da Lat city establishment and development.
Accordingly, the working groups shall be first scheduled to visit and investigate in Ban Me Thuot in two days of the second and third of November, 2013; then trip to Ko Tam Cultural EcoTourism Zone to have enjoyment and discovery of plant, production, and processing procedure of reputable coffee specialities.
In particular, what worth mentioning is the exploration itinerary of ethnic minorities that navigate to Cong Chieng Festival, Can wine (wine drunk out of a jar through pipes), baked meat, visit to Daklak Museum of Ethnology where displays and introduces Central Highland cultural space and other 44 brotherhood ethnics residing in Daklak province territory.
The groups will also pay a visit to Dray Nur Fall that is well-known for the most imposing and spectacular in Central Highland, then learned about indigeneous cultural values, riding elephans across Daklak Lake, boating pirague and discovering lifestyle in Le village (Buon Le) and Jun village (Buon Jun) of M’ Nong people, et cetera.
The visiting groups learned about procedure of processing Ban Me Thuot famous coffee
Experiencing daily ordinary life of native people in the long house
In the evening of December 2nd 2013, the working group of Vietravel and reporters had a meeting and promoted tourism to local leaders.
On the side of local authority, the press conference included the participation of Mrs.Mai Hoan – Vice Chairman of Daklak Provincial People’s Committee, Mr.Huynh Ngoc Duong – Deputy Diretor of Daklak Trade, Investment and Tourism Promotion Centre, Mr.Dinh Mot – Division Head of Operation under Daklak Department of Culture, Sports and Tourism, Mr.Le Hoang Co – Vice Chairman of Daklak Tourism Association.
The groups had made discussion and exchanged ideas so as to orient and seek for better tourism solutions of Ban Me Thuat city in particular and Central Highland provinces in general which possess a lot of potentials and promisingly brings about exciting experiences for domestic and foreign visitors.
Mrs.Mai Hoan – Vice Chairman of Daklak Provincial People’s Committee spoke at the opening of press conference
Mr. Huynh Ngoc Duong – Deputy Director of Trade, Investment and Tourism Promotion Center stated about the orientation of local tourism development
From 4th to 6th of December, 2013, the working groups came to Da Lat Plateau, the city with plentiful names such as the Flower City, Foggy City, Love City, etc that keeps potential romatic beauty, impresses with historical features on every street, every foot-stop to be adopted into poems, music and esteem of numerous visitors.
It is the year of 2013 that celebrates the event of Da Lat city being 120 years old since Doctor Yersin found and constructed.
Da Lat in the past and now harmonize with each other by historic marks of times..
Here it is Da Lat Railway Station, Domain De Marie Church and hidden villas in immense pine forests, et cetera. It embodies the beauty of city in the forest and forest in the city, which draw special attention of visitors to find out its mystery and attractiveness then satisfy their curiousity as well as thinking of the unique romantic beauty here
Moroever, the working groups also arranged a press conference with local authority and other local service providers (Love Valley, Bluer Moon Hotel, Da Lat Flower Forest Bio-technology Joint Stock Company, Hoang Anh Green Land Resort) with the view to discussing about expanding tourism development in Lam Dong province and spreading to the public.
Particularly, during the itinerary, each member participated in an environmental event named “Keep the Central Highland Forever Green” by planting a tree as a mesage to protect green and clean environment for a greener and nicer Da Lat in the eyes of visitors, especially on the context the Flower Festival has just coming very soon.
Next, the groups visited such peaceful and wild destinations as Love Valley, Golden Valley, Ve Chai Temple, Cu Lan Village, etc.
With such goals and detailed itinerary, the tourism promotion program in Lam Dong and Daklak province would be a starting point for the National Tourism Year 2014 in Central Highland full of promising success.
VIETRAVEL – SILVER SPONSOR FOR FESTIVAL HUE 2014
In the morning of November 3rd 2013, the office of Thua Thien Hue People’s Committee witnessed the official signature ceremony sponsored for Festival Huế 2014 by and between Viettravel Tourism Company and Festival Huế 2014 Center, which was hosted by Mr Ngo Hoa – Standing Vice Chairman of Thua Thien Hue People’s Committee.
In addition to the role of Silver Sponsor for this festival, Vietravel Toursim Company also acts as a co-organizer and the main sponsor for the traditional boat race in Festival Huế 2014 this time.
The signature ceremony warmly welcomed the active participation of Mr.Ngo Hoa – Vice Chairman of Thua Thien Hue People’s Committee, Mr, Cai Vinh Tuan – Director of Thua Thien Hue Department of Home Affairs, Mr.Vo Quang Lien Kha – Deputy Director of Vietravel together with leaders of departments, agencies and sectors of the province, et cetera.
Speaking at the opening ceremony, Mr Ngo Hoa gave an overview assessment on the organization work for Festival Huế 2014 from which showed a matter of fact that Festival Huế has become a grand &amp; meaningful cultural event towards the introduction of Vietnam tourism image in general and Thue Thien Hue province in particular through heritage values, ecology and bringing the role of cultural, economic and tourism center of the whole nation and North Central region to the fullest play.
By 2014, Festival Huế has experienced 8 times of organization with extensive scale characterized not only by the number of registration of international performing art trouples but also proactive involvement of enterprises in forging together towards reservation and honor to national cultural heritages and values.
Besides the role of Silver Sponsor for Festival Huế 2014, Vietravel that also plays part of a co-organizing unit and main sponsorship for the traditional boat race in Huong river has now been enthusiatically initiated numerous propagation actitivities along with the Organizing Board for the preparation of Festival event under various promotion approaches.
Mr. Ngo Hoa – Vice Chairman of Thue Thien Hue People’s Committee – Head of Festival Huế 2014 Organizing Board
At the signature cermony, Mr.Vo Quang Lien Kha – Deputy Director of Vietravel Tourism Company asserted once again that Vietravel’s tourism mission and development goals would be towards responsibilities for society and community and hand-in-hand with considerable events and activities in conservation, reservation and development of national cultural values, therefore the one-billion silver sponsorship package in this Festival would not out of objectives that contribute to great success of Festival Huế 2014 and builde image of both Thua Thien Hue Tourism and Vietnam Tourism much more beautiful and attractive in the eyes of visitors and global friends.
Mr. Vo Quang Lien Kha – Deputy Director of Vietravel Tourism Company spoke at the signature ceremony for sponsorship. He underscored that the meaning of contribution to the conservation and honor of national cultural values in Festival Huế should be duties of each individual and enterprise.
Mr. Nguyen Van Thanh – Deputy Managing Director of Festival Huế 2014 Center and Mr.Vo Quang Lien Kha – Deputy General Director of Vietravel formed etiquete for sponsorship contract signature under the witness of many provincial leaders and reporters
Vietravel – A pioneer story
Vietravel has come a long way since its establishment in 1995 with extraordinary efforts to become the flagship in tourism in Vietnam.
For the past 18 years, sustaining commitment to provide good quality services in satisfaction to every client’s demands together with constant pioneering in innovation to serve clients has helped Vietravel obtain many domestically and internationally prestigious awards from travel organizations and press agencies.
Vietravel has also become a member of major travel organizations in the world such as: USTOA, ASTA, PATA, ATTA, JATA, and IAGTO.
The most important milestones are known that Vietravel, in October 2013, was the only travel company of Vietnam voted for two titles namely “Vietnam’s Leading Tour Operator” and “Vietnam’s Leading Travel Agency” by the World Travel Awards (WTA) 2013 – likened to “The Oscars of the travel industry”.
In addition, this is the third consecutive year (2011, 2012, 2013) Vietravel has been awarded by TTG Asia – the leading travel magazine in Asia-Pacific Region at the 24th Annual TTG Travel Awards 2013.
Such important events once again have affirmed the position and trademark of Vietravel in the international playground and have been also motive force for Vietravel to better advance on the way of development – the way of the pioneer.
With over 40 transaction offices and branches nationwide, 3 representative offices overseas in Cambodia, Thailand and the United States, Vietravel has constantly developed and extended its business network with great demand on high quality human resource.
Accordingly, Vietravel has opened ideal career opportunities for young people to start their promising future.
At Vietravel, enthusiastic, conscientious, dynamic and well-qualified staff would create the best working environment and impart good experiences for young people in their career process.
Recently, RMIT University has been a companion and a good recruiting environment for Vietravel to recruit and supplement highly qualified human resource to its group of staff.
With RMIT career guidance event this time, Vietravel is honored to participate in the event in capacity of a sponsor.
This is also an opportunity for Vietravel to closely access to students as well as seek for and further select brilliant applicants for many working positions at Vietravel.
Tourism is a dynamic and attractive work suitable for those with wholehearted interest, who are willing to devote themselves to such interest.
Vietravel is a widely open door to welcome new members who have aspiration and devotion.
VIETRAVEL NHA TRANG – ACTIVE IN ACTIONS ACCOMMPANING WITH VIETNAMESE TALENTS
On 12/11/2013, Vietravel Nha Trang organized the charity program to support the poor children of Van Thanh 2 Primary School to continue their studies (Khai Luong hamlet, Van Thanh commune, Van Ninh district).
This is a meaningful event within the Community-Based Tourism Year Project implementation activities of Vietravel in 2013 in Nha Trang.
Within the program, Vietravel Nha Trang visited and offered gifts to students with difficult situations in Van Ninh island district including 1000 notebooks, 1000 pens which were divided into 200 gifts to students in 3 areas in the island, 50 school bags to poor students with difficult situations.
It is known that, besides the contribution from staffs of the company, Vietravel Nha Trang called for the contribution from regular partners in Nha Trang to sponsor for this program including Hieu Nghia One Member Company Limited, Gia Restaurant, Den Long Do Restaurant etc.
Representative of Vietravel Nha Trang is offering gifts to students
Vietravel shall continue to accompany with School Support Programs
Vietravel Nha Trang hopes that these gifts may help the pupils here to go to school with more sufficient school things and share partially difficulties with poor pupils in remote island area.
As said by Mr.Doan Hai Quan – Branch Director of Vietravel Nha Trang “Vietravel always highly appreciate the responsibilities of the company with the environment and community, therefore, the company has organized more meaningful programs for the society.
Together with other Vietravel branches nationwide, Vietravel Nha Trang is also actively implementing and accompanying with charity programs in the province and calling for sharing and contributions from the benefactors, fellow customers to expand the programs and support more people”
It is informed that Vietravel Nha Trang has just introduced the tourists special tours on the occasion of Vietnamese Teachers’ Day 20/11 and Christmas and New Year 2014 as follows:
Bangkok – Pattaya SUPER SAVINGS (05 days)
Departure: 20/11
Packaged Price: VND9,290,000
Singapore - Malaysia – ECO!!! (6 days)
Departure: 27/11
Packaged Price: VND 14,790,000
Seoul - Jeju - Nami - Everland - Seoul (07 days) – One night to discover Da Nang city ECO!!!
Departure: 05/12
Packaged Price: VND 19,190,000
Bangkok - Pattaya – Discover Madame Tussuads Wax Museum (05 days) – Welcome Christmas in Bangkok
Departure: 21/12
Packaged Price: VND 10,890,000
Singapore - Malaysia –5* Hotel in Kuala Lumpur (6 days) – Welcome New Year 2014
Departure: 28/12
Packaged Price: VND 16,790,000
Da Lat Flower Festival (3 days)
Departure: only on 27/12
Packaged Price: VND 1,990,000
Contact information:
Vietravel Nha Trang
100 Quang Trung, Loc Tho ward, Nha Trang
Tel: (058) 3526 577
Email: vtv.nhatrang@vietravel.com.vn;
Transaction Office No.1
23D Biet Thu, Loc Tho ward, Nha Trang
Tel: (058) 3526 393
Email: vtv.nhatrang.vp1@vietravel.com.vn;
Hotline: 0988 608 286
(Source: Department of Communications, Vietravel Nha Trang)
VIETRAVEL HANOI ORGANIZES THE CHARITY TOUR “WARM JACKETS FOR CHILDREN” 2013
On 31/10/2013, Vietravel in cooperation with Tien Phong Newspaper, Singer Tung Duong and tourists of great generosity started the charity tour in Sing Lung commune, Dong Van district, Ha Giang province.
This is the tour in the charity tours to East-West North Region implemented by Vietravel Hanoi this winter.
Sinh Lung commune, Dong Van district, Ha Giang province is the place with many H’mong people and some Lao Co people who are living in very difficult situations.
Due to the area is large with mainly mountainous area, the traffic road is very difficult and schools are all very far and the farthest school is 15km away from the town center.
“When witnessing children who are living in very difficult situations with only some old clothes in the cold winter etc. we are decided to do some practical and meaningful things for children here”, shared the representative of Vietravel.
Charity Team on the way to Sinh Lung commune
West North Landscape is charming and beautiful to keep the tourists
Tam Giac Mach Flowers is blooming
In 4 days (31/10 - 3/11/2013), Vietravel together with Singer Tung Duong, Tien Phong Newspaper came to Sing Lung Commune Secondary School, Dong Van district, Ha Giang province to directly participate in meaningful activities and offer many practical gifts to teachers and children here including: 04 bunk beds, 3 scholarships, 350 warm clothes, socks, 50 cotton blankets and hundreds of schoolbook sets and reference books and many other school things etc.; organize arts exchange performance with childresn with the participation of Singer Tung Duong.
The team brings the warm of “Chiec Khan Phieu” to schools with hamlet people; asking and encouraging, and offering gifts to soldiers of Lung Cu Border Post etc. To implement this tour, besides launching the movement from its staffs, Vietravel Hanoi also received the supports and charity contributions from regular tourists of the company such as Education Publishing House, Ba Sao Foods and Drinks Services Company, Vietnam Future Company etc.
Vietravel offers the scholarships to children with good study results and good behaviors
The team is visiting and preparing many candies and cakes for children
Singer Tung Duong and other volunteers of the programs are offering gifts to children
Vietravel hopes that these practical charity activities shall not only help small children in central highlands – the future of the country to continue their study with sufficient facilities but also help their relatives and teachers reduce partially their difficulties in educating these children.
As shared by the representative of Vietravel Hanoi with the charity team: “We will not only offer the warm clothes of love to teachers and children here, but we also give our sympathy, sharing and love.
This is a deep memory in their childhood about the great action and about our moral code of “love others as love ourselves” which will be a luggage in the way to the future and encourage them to try the bests in their studies and train to become good people with good ethnics and talents to contribute to construct our country”.
Arts exchange with Singer Tung Duong and other team members
This will be a beautiful memory
Vietravel shall implement many other more practical programs
On the next 28/11 and 6/12/2013, Vietravel Hanoi will implement two charity tours to Cao Bang and Moc Chau.
The tourists can register today to accompany and share with the people in Central Highlands or contribute for scholarships, warm clothes, books for children here.
All contributions, please contact
1. Mr Huy Hoang – Sale FIT of Domestic Tours of Vietravel in Hanoi, 03 Hai Ba Trung, Hoan Kiem, Hanoi
Tel: 0947.339.797,or 043.933.1978 – Extension number: 150.
2. Ms Lan Huong – Sale FIT of Domestic Tours of Vietravel Vietravel in Hanoi, 03 Hai Ba Trung, Hoan Kiem, Hanoi
Tel : 01656.052.616, or 043.933.1978 – Extension number: 666.
3. Ms.Ha Anh – Marketing and Communication Department of Vietravel, Hanoi branch
Tel: 04 3933 1978 – Extension number: 335.
VIETRAVEL PRESENTS 26 SCHOLARSHIPS “VIETRAVEL IN COMPANIONSHIP WITH VIETNAMESE TALENTS”
A scholarship presentation ceremony was held by Vietravel at its head office at 190 Pasteur, Ward 6, District 3, Ho Chi Minh City on October 31st 2013 to present scholarships to 26 excellent students in difficult circumstances in the academic year 2013 – 2014.
All of them got high marks from the university entrance examination at 25 marks up and students who received “Vietravel in companionship with Vietnamese talents” scholarships 2012 and got annual grade point average (AGPA) at 8.0 (according to Vietnamese grading scale) from universities nationwide were also presented with scholarships on this occasion.
Each scholarship worth VND 10,000 was extracted from Vietravel scholarship fund contributed by Vietravel’s leaders and staffs.
The scholarship program for students in difficult circumstances was started from 2012.
Up to now, the total number of applications sent to Vietravel has increased 51% in comparison with that in 2012 with 89 applications from 25 universities nationwide.
With a view to supporting pupils and students in difficult circumstances to get further will to strive and better themselves in study in order to make better contribution to themselves, their families and society, Vietravel and all of its leaders and staffs actively and voluntarily contributed to the “Vietravel in companionship with Vietnamese talents” scholarship fund.
After one year of launching, up to now, it has been widely spread from 9 universities initially planed to 25 universities nationwide.
In addition, Vietravel in coordination with Tuoitre Newspaper sponsored for the “Giving added strength to school” program, thereby Vietravel presented 10 bicycles and 1000 notebooks to pupils in difficult circumstances in Long Xuyen and sponsored for many other events in provinces and cities nationwide.
VINADIVING PROVES LEADING QUALITY OF DIVER TRAINING
A closing ceremony on rescue diving training course 2013 for officers and soldiers of Ho Chi Minh City Fire Prevention and Fighting Police Department was held at Vietnam Dive Center (VINADIVING) on October 25th 2013.
Officers and soldiers had to undergo a strict and methodical training process and granted with professional rescue diving certificates from Professional Association of Diving Instructors (PADI).
This training course was attended by 35 officers and soliders in charge of rescue work of Ho Chi Minh City’s Fire Prevention and Fighting Police Department.
This is also a key force to follow up, provide training on marine rescue to relevant units afterwards.
Trainees were trained with knowledge from basic, advanced levels to rescue practice for 10 days in Nha Trang and 20 days in Ho Chi Minh City.
That Ho Chi Minh City’s Fire Prevention and Fighting Police Department selected VINADIVING as a training provider to its officers and soldiers showed prestige and training quality of VINADIVING – which is not only a provider of diversified, safe diving services at high quality to clients but also the best diver trainer in Vietnam at present.
Vinadiving under Vietravel was established in 1997 to provide recreational diving services as well as diver training and issuing international diving certificates.
For over the period of development and appreciation, Vinadiving has become the best provider of recreational diving services and diver training at present and positively supported to Vietravel in diversifying travel categories to serve clients’ demands.
Especially, in August 2013, Vinadiving opened a new Dolphin ship for scuba divers transport qualified in conformity with standards of the Professional Association of Diving Instructors (PADI) and put it into use in order to create more options and diversify underwater excursions attractive to visitors.
This is good news for those interested in discovery diving in Vietnam.
Below are some images recorded at the closing ceremony:
National flag salutation formality
Spectacle of the ceremony
Major General Tran Trieu Duong – Director of Ho Chi Minh City Fire Prevention and Fighting Police Department spoke at the closing ceremony
Comrade Truong Van Lam – Director of Ho Chi Minh City Department of Home Affairs spoke at the closing ceremony
Ms. Dao Thi Thanh Tham – Director of VINADIVE spoke at the closing ceremony
Representative of officers and soldiers who attended the training course spoke at the closing ceremony
Leaders of Ho Chi Minh City Fire Prevention and Fighting Police Department and Vinadive presented gifts to excellent trainees
Mr. Vo Quang Lien Kha – Deputy General Director of Vietravel awarded Certificates to succesful trainees
Ms. Dao Thi Thanh Tham – Director of Vinadive awarded Certificates to successful trainees
Contact information:Vietnam Dive Center - VINADIVINGAddress: 23D Biet Thu street, Nha Trang City, Khanh Hoa ProvinceTel: 0583 526 575
VIETRAVEL PHAN THIET DEVELOPS AND PIONEERS IN TOURISM
The 18th Anniversary of Binh Thuan Tourism Day was held by Binh Thuan Tourism on October 24th 2013.
A ceremony for honoring travel enterprises which made positive contributions to the development of Binh Thuan tourism was also held on this occasion.
Vietravel Phan Thiet honorably won “Outstanding enterprise in tourism 2013” award.
Vietravel with its sound capacity and business strategies has constantly developed and affirmed its position as the leading tour operator in Vietnam.
Furthermore, Vietravel has been a pioneer in Vietnam tourism as it has won a lot of international travel awards presented by prestigious international travel organizations.
In October 2013, Vietravel was the only travel company of Vietnam voted under the World Travel Awards (WTA) with two awards.
Vietravel was also voted and awarded by TTG Asia – the leading travel magazine in Asia-Pacific Region at the 24th Annual TTG Travel Awards 2013.
This was the third time Vietravel was voted for this award. With constant development, Vietravel currently has 44 offices and branches nationwide and representative offices in foreign countries such as: Cambodia, Thailand, the United States.
Such system of offices and branches has helped Vietravel consolidate its chain of transactions to quickly satisfy clients’ demands any time, anywhere, in which it must be taken into account Vietravel Phan Thiet.
Mr. Nguyen Minh Ngoc – Deputy General Director on behalf of Vietravel received the “Outstanding enterprise in tourism 2013” award
Vietravel is confident to affirm its position as the leading tour operator in Vietnam and reach out to the world
Although Vietravel Phan Thiet has just been put into operation since 2012, it has quickly developed and proved its strength and outstanding capacity.
Vietravel Phan Thiet has made positive contribution not only to the development of Binh Thuan tourism but also to social activities in Binh Thuan province, to realize the business philosophy of economic development in close connection to social responsibilities of Vietravel.
In 2013, Vietravel Phan Thiet was honorably awarded by Binh Thuan Department of Culture, Sports and Tourism with the “Outstanding enterprise in tourism 2013” award on the occasion of the 18th Anniversary of Binh Thuan Tourism Day.
This award was encouragement and motive force for Vietravel Phan Thiet to constantly contribute to the general development of tourism as well as to the economic development of Binh Thuan province.
VIETRAVEL CA MAU PARTICIPATES IN MANY LOCAL EXCHANGE ACTIVITIES
A mini football tournament was held at the Center for Physical Culture and Sports of Cai Nuoc district, Ca Mau province from 19th to 20th October 2013 in celebration of the Vietnam Youth Union Congress at different levels leading to the fifth Ca Mau Youth Union Congress.
Vietravel Ca Mau sponsored and acted in companionship with the tournament.
This mini football tournament was held in celebration of the 57th Anniversary of Vietnam Youth Union and Ca Mau Youth Union Congress with the participation of 14 football teams coming from: Ca Mau Young Entrepreneurs’ Association, Youth Union of the Enterprise Block, Youth Union of the People-Government-Party block, Committee of associations of districts in Ca Mau province.
This tournament was a noteworthy sport event to create animated emulation and promote the spirit of physical culture and sports of leaders and staffs, further enhance relations among entities.
This tournament was successful and Vietravel made positive contribution to this event in capacity of a sponsor.
Vietravel Ca Mau is a new branch of Vietravel which has just been put into operation since 2013.
This is the fourth branch opened by Vietravel in the Mekong Delta after Can Tho, Phu Quoc, and Long Xuyen.
Up to now, Vietravel has had 44 offices and branches nationwide ranging from Lao Cai to Phu Quoc, and Ca Mau.
Vietravel Ca Mau quickly satisfies local demands on inbound and outbound travel as well as launches and acts in companionship with Ca Mau province in social activities with a view to realizing the business philosophy of socially and environmentally responsible travel, and localize business of Vietravel.
Below are some images recorded at the mini football tournament
14 entities joined the mini football tournament
The Organizing Board offered pennants to football teams
Football teams competed animatedly
Representative of Vietravel Ca Mau awarded prize to the winner
Vietravel is always in companionship with local activities positively
VIETRAVEL IN FRIENDLY GAMES WITH PHUOC HOA RUBBER JSC AT THE SPORTS FESTIVAL IN CELEBRATION OF THE 84TH ANNIVERSARY OF THE RUBBER INDUSTRY
On October 19th 2013, sports teams of Vietravel were present in Binh Duong to exchange in friendly games with Phuoc Hoa Rubber JSC.
Sports teams of Vietravel competed at their best efforts in the spirit of friendship, fair play and obtained significant results from games which they joined.
In the animated atmosphere to celebrate the 84th anniversary of the rubber industry, Phuoc Hoa Rubber JSC formally organized the Sports Festival 2013 with many exciting games with a view to enhancing opportunities of exchange and the spirit of solidarity among managers, staffs; Vietravel and Phuoc Hoa Rubber JSC alsoexpressed the spirit of exchange via a series of exciting games such as football, ping-pong, tennis, badminton…Matches took place in the spirit of exchange, inquiring mind, and friendship.
Both of them appointed their strongest teams to compete in matches and the result was the general success of the Sports Festival with animated, dramatic and fair play moments.
On this occasion, Vietravel took a large group of sports teams and supporters to the Sports Festival in order to support and contribute to making the Sports Festival further successful.
The Sports Festival was successful beyond expectation and created closer relations.
It can be said that this exchange is a great progress showing the understanding and willing to support each other in the coming time, in which sports exchange will be one of the best ways to enhance understanding.
Vietravel would like to congratulate on the success of the Sports Festival and wish leaders and staffs of Phuoc Hoa Rubber JSC good health, good achievements and excellent fulfillment of plan 2013.
Below are some images recorded at the Sports Festival:
The opening ceremony of the Sports Festival solemnly took place at Phuoc Hoa Rubber JSC
The Organizing Board offered pennants to participant teams
Vietravel’s football team and their counterpart had photograph taken before kick-off
Vietravel’s football team and their counterparts played at their best efforts and devoted spectacular goals
Vietravel’s players competed in Tennis for the leadership class
Two players of Vietravel competed in Tennis for the young class
Vietravel won high results in Tennis and Badminton
At the end of the Sports Festival, Vietravel was awared by the Organizing Board for all games it joined
The Sports Festival was successful
FREE OCULAR SURGERY PERFORMED FOR HUNDREDS OF PATIENTS IN CAN THO, LONG XUYEN
On October 17th 2013, a cataract treatment and surgery program was launched at O Mon General Hospital to perform ocular surgery for 130 poor patients coming from Can Tho and Long Xuyen.
All costs of such program was supported by Vietravel.
Cataract is a cause leading to 66% of blind cases in Vietnam.
At present, there are over 300,000 patients who need substituting their corneas and only 1,000 people donating their corneas to the Eye Bank.
Cataract surgery and treatment is still largely demanded, especially those in rural, isolated and remote areas.
In face of this situation, for over the past period of time, Vietravel has supported VND 1,5 billion to HCMC Sponsoring Association for Poor Patients with a view to bringing light to over 1,800 poor blind patients nationwide.
In 2013, Vietravel has sponsored for 200 ocular surgery cases in Khanh Hoa province in June 2013 and continued free ocular surgery for over 130 poor patients in Can tho and An Giang on this occasion.
Just awarded with “Vietnam’ Leading Travel Agency” award by the World Travel Awards, Vietravel regarded socially responsible activities as part of its business mission.
Vietravel has participated in many socially significant activities for years such as organizing full-moon festival for children of the SOS children’s village, Tam Binh Children’s village (Ho Chi Minh City); constructing charitable house in Can Gio district (Ho Chi Minh City), supporting physiotherapy equipment to lonely elderly people, disabled people and those having merit to the nation in Binh Thuan province; supporting compatriots suffering from natural disasters in the Central Region; contributing to constructing Truong Bon Memorial site (Nghe An); presenting scholarships to new students in the academic years 2012, 2013.
In activities of the travel industry, Vietravel has organized an environmental protection program titled as “Travel for a clean and green environment” encouraging people to protect the environment, use autolytic bags.
In sports, Vietravel has been the main sponsor for national tennis championships from now to the year 2015, which has made contribution to the success of Vietnamese tennis at the Davis Cup 2013 recently.
All of such activities show that Vietravel has been making its best efforts in business to make better contribution to the society.
This is also a reason that Vietravel has always attracted the largest number of clients, regardless of difficulties of the economy. With the turnover of the first 9 months of the year 2013 equal to the total turnover of VND 2,500 billion of the year 2012, it is expected that Vietravel will reach the turnover amount of VND 3,000,000 billion at the end of the year 2013 and continue setting record of the leading tour operator for the fourth consecutive time in Vietnam.
Below are some images recorded at the ocular surgery program in Can Tho, Long Xuyen:
Vietravel’s Representative spoke at the eye bandage removal ceremony
Free ocular surgery performed for 130 patients on this occasion
Vietravel’s Representative and doctors removed eye bandages from patients
VIETRAVEL WINS HCMC OUTSTANDING ENTERPRISE AWARD 2013
A ceremony for honoring outstanding enterprises in Ho Chi Minh City 2013 took place at the meeting-hall of Ho Chi Minh City Party Committee at night, October 13th 2013 on the occasion of celebration of Vietnam Entrepreneurs' Day.
This ceremony was held by HCMC Union of Business Associations (HUBA), and Vietravel was also one of 105 outstanding enterprises honoured on this occasion.
It can be said that Vietravel is one of few enterprises in Ho Chi Minh City in particular and nationwide in general in the travel industry with the most stable and high growth at present.
With the turnover of the first 9 months of the year 2013 equal to the total turnover of VND 2,500 billion of the year 2012, it is expected that Vietravel will reach the turnover amount of VND 3,000,000 billion at the end of the year 2013.
Once again, Vietravel fairthfully expresses gratitude to HCMC Union of Business Associations (HUBA), valued clients, valued partners who have always believed in and voted for Vietravel.
All leaders and staffs of Vietravel are determined to strive, work at the best effort and devotedly serve clients and prove high professionalism to requite clients’ trust.
Fairthfully thanks.
Below are some images that we recorded at the ceremony:
Panorama of the ceremony for honoring outstanding enterprises in Ho Chi Minh City 2013
A minute’s silence in memory of General Vo Nguyen Giap
Representative of HCMC People’s Committee spoke of great contributions of enterprises in HCMC to the general development of HCMC
Vietravel was one of 105 outstanding enterprises honoured on this occasion(Photo: Mr.Nguyen Minh Ngoc - Deputy General Director of Vietravel honorably received HCMC outstanding enterprise award 2013)
MR. NGUYEN QUOC KY - PORTRAIT OF AN EXEMPLARY VIETNAMESE ENTREPRENEUR
A solemn ceremony to celebrate the Vietnam Entrepreneurs' Day and honour 100 exemplary entrepreneurs voted and awarded by Vietnam Chamber of Commerce and Industry (VCCI) took place at Hanoi Friendship Cultural Palace this morning, October 11th 2013.
Mr.Nguyen Quoc Ky – General Director of Vietravel was honourably voted as one of 100 exemplary entrepreneurs in 2013.
In capacity of the leading tour operator’s CEO in Vietnam, managing over 1,000 staffs working domestically and internationally, Mr.Nguyen Quoc Ky was always familiar with and deeply aware of job of each staff so as to timely encourage, support, and create favorable conditions for them to improve their qualifications by speficic plan of action.
He determined that human resource was the most precious asset of the company so that he spent much time and expenditure for training and re-training.
Specific training courses were designed for different subjects ranging from senior managers to sales staffs, tourist guides.
The movement of self-study and strengthening capacity widely spread all over the company, that constituted relatively equal knowledge background and qualification of each level.
Together with a large and qualified group of leaders and over 1,000 staffs, he boosted up Vietravel to a new stature by realizing targets undertaken with the society and the community.
That was proved by high and stable growth of turnover for years, ranging from 30% in comparison with the same period last year.
For the first 9 months of the year 2013 alone, Vietravel obtained a turnover about VND 2,500 billion, equal to that of the whole year 2013, in addition, a series of international awards won by Vietravel recently such as: award from Mekong Tourism Alliance Awards – MTAA 2013 by Ministries of Tourism of five countries in the Mekong Sub-region in September 2013.
At the beginning of October 2013, Vietravel consecutively won awards from the World Travel Awards 2013 in Dubai on October 1st 2013 and from the TTG Travel Awards 2013 in Thailand hosted by TTGAsia – a leading travel magazine in the Asia-Pacific Region on October 3rd 2013.
With strategic vision in the orientation of development to the year 2020, Vietravel is striving to be listed in the Top 10 leading tour operators in Asia with its consistent vision and mission in the entire company, especially the determination of restructuring the entire business system towards intensive business with a view to strengthening business capacity, and also developing strongly and quickly in terms of scale of domestic and foreign transaction system in order to quickly satisfy any client’s demands any time, anywhere and by all means.
Up to now, Vietravel has attracted over 1,000 well qualified staffs and has been willing for a new playground and confident to catch up with the world in the spirit of pioneering, welcoming Vietravel’s 18th Anniversary, and constantly affirming its position as a Vietnamese travel trademark in the region and the world.
He was deserved to be an exemplary Vietnamese entrepreneur and a pioneer boosting up Vietravel to a new stature and intensifying spirit for travel companies of Vietnam to enter the international arena firmly with their professional staffs, sustainable economic capacities, solidarity and determination to act for lofty missions of Vietnamese entrepreneurs’ spirit in pioneering and advancing.
VIETRAVEL SUPPORTS COMPATRIOTS IN THE CENTRAL REGION
A part from constant efforts in business development, Vietravel always regards social activities as part of its responsibilities for the society.
In 2013, Vietravel defined it as the year of socially responsible travel.
Accordingly, Vietravel with its offices and branches nationwide ranging from Lao Cai to Phu Quoc coordinated with local authorities in organizing social activities such as ocular surgery for poor patients, offering warm clothes to compatriots in the mountainous regions, presenting scholarships to excellent pupils and students in difficult circumstances…
In the spirit of compassion and sharing part of loss in the recent heavy storm suffered by compatriots in the Central Region, all leaders and staffs of Vietravel voluntarily contributed pay of one working day.
Also in October, Vietravel in coordination with HCMC Sponsoring Association for Poor Patients to perform ocular surgery for over 130 poor patients in Can Tho and Long Xuyen.
Vietravel is launching “Light for Life” program with a view to bring light to many more poor blinds nationwide
With the objective to become the first multinational travel corporation in Vietnam, Vietravel will more and more associate business development with social development to make contribution to each locality.
VIETRAVEL IS PROUD OF HAVING RECEIVED AWARD FOR THE THIRD CONSECUTIVE TIME FROM TTG TRAVEL AWARDS
The 24th Annual TTG Travel Awards 2013 was officially held at Bangkok Convention Centre at CentralWorld (Thailand) at night, October 3rd 2013 for leading groups and companies in travel industry in Asia.
Vietravel was honored to be the only travel company of Vietnam receiving the third consecutive award from this event.
Below is photo reportage recorded from the 24th Annual TTG Travel Awards 2013 at Bangkok, Thailand:
Vietravel’s Representative - Ms.Nguyen Le Huong received award at the 24th Annual TTG Travel Awards 2013
Partners congratulated on the success of Vietravel
General Director Nguyen Quoc Ky shared happiness with partners and reporters traveling with Vietravel delegation
Leader of Sai Travel – a partner of Vietravel in Japan congratulated Vietravel
Mr. La Quoc Khanh – Deputy Director of HCMC Department of Culture, Sports and Tourism shared happiness with Vietravel
Representative of Thai Airway congratulated Vietravel
Mr. Ngoc Chau – Director of FBNC Television Channel attended the 24th Annual TTG Travel Awards 2013
Representative of Vietnam Airlines shared happiness with Vietravel
Tour service provider in partnership with Vietravel in Thailand
Representative of Tien Phong Newspaper congratulated Vietravel
Thanh Nien Newspaper in companionship with Vietravel on any way…
Representative of Saigon Entrepreneur Newspaper was also present in Bangkok to witness award of Vietravel for the third time from TTG Asia
Representatives of VTV and HTV had commemorative photograph taken with Vietravel
Representatives of Lao Dong Newspaper, Tuoi Tre Newspaper and VTV
Representative of Nguoi Lao Dong Newspaper – a newspaper of every home was also present to witness and post news on this event
Together congratulating on the breakthrough developments of Vietravel in the Region and the world
VIETRAVEL PROMOTES TOURISM AT THE NORTH CENTRAL REGION ECONOMIC EXCHANGE FAIR – VINH 2013
Vietravel branch in Vinh city participated in promoting tourism at the North Central Region Economic Exchange Fair – Vinh 2013 at Vinh City Central Park – Truong Thi Street from 4th to 11th October 2013.
This fair was hosted by the People’s Committee of Nghe An province, Nghe An Department of Industry and Trade, and the People’s Committee of Vinh city.
According to Nghe An trade promotion program 2013 towards celebration of the 225th anniversary of Phuong Hoang Trung Do, 50th anniversary of Vinh city, 5th anniversary of Class-I city and receiving Third-Class Independence Medal, the North Central Region Economic Exchange Fair was organized with a view to creating opportunities for domestic and foreign enterprises to meet, exchange, introduce new products, new technologies to people in Nghe An province in general and in Vinh City in particular.
The fair included 300 – 400 booths with the participation of over 250 domestic and foreign entities.
A large number of visitors visited and booked tours at Vietravel’s booth
Vietravel’s booth on an area of 54m2 included 6 standard stands numbered from 277 to 282, located at the area set aside for typical enterprises.
At Vietravel’s booth, clients would be advised and offered in terms of tours under the autumnal promotion program 2013, specific tours designed for clients in Vinh city such as Vinh – Laos – Cambodia tour, Vinh – Laos – Thailand tour,…In addition, clients would also have opportunities to join animated game shows with prizes and lucky draw together with valuable gifts offered to visitors at Vietravel’s booth.
Especially, clients directly booking for tours at Vietravel’s booth apart from seasonal promotion programs would get instant discount VND 300,000 per each tour.
Client played game at Vietravel’s booth
As a leading tour operator in Vietnam, Vietravel has always cared of tourism promotion activities.
Domestically, Vietravel has contributed to the success of Ho Chi Minh City Tourism Festival, the International Travel Expo for years,..
In 2013, Vietravel is proud of having been the first and only travel company of Vietnam receiving awards from the World Travel Awards (WTA) and awards from the TTG Travel Awards held by TTG Asia Magazine for three consecutive years 2011, 2012 and 2013.
Vietravel Branch in Vinh City
No.6 Adjacency - Block C1 – Tecco Building –Quang Trung Street – Vinh City.
Tel: 038 3552299 – Fax: 038 356610
VIETRAVEL ACTS TOWARDS TEACHERS AND PUPILS OF BAN KHOANG LOWER SECONDARY SCHOOL (SA PA) SUFFERING FROM NATURAL DISASTERS
In the morning, October 2nd 2013, Vietravel branches in the North (Lao Cai, Hanoi and Hai Phong) in coordination with Lao Cai Young Entrepreneurs’ Association offered gifts and warm clothes to teachers and pupils of Ban Khoang lower secondary school (Sa Pa) suffering from natural disasters.
The offering session was also attended by leaders of Lao Cai Department of Culture, Sports and Tourism, Chairperson of Vietnam Fatherland Front Committee of Lao Cai Province, Chairperson of Lao Cai Red Cross Association, Representative of Sapa Tourism Association and press representatives in Lao Cai.
Mr.Tang Van Toan – Director of Vietravel Lao Cai said that: “With the target of socially and environmentally responsible travel in 2013 by Vietravel, from September 11th to September 20th, the management board and trade union executive board of Vietravel in the North together with enthusiastic support from Lao Cai Young Entrepreneurs’ Association initiated the donation program and received many clothes, books, notebooks and necessities from Vietravel branches and benefactors.
Mr. Tang Van Toan – Director of Vietravel Lao Cai made a speech at the offering session
Being a travel company, apart from doing business in Lao Cai province, Vietravel in Lao Cai in particular and in the North in general has regularly cared of charity and humanity.
In the program for offering gifts and warm clothes to teachers and pupils of Ban Khoang lower secondary school, Vietravel offered over 500 warm clothes, 6 gifts (each gift valued at VND 1,000,000) to 6 teachers and their families heavily suffering from serious flash flood, and 50 gifts (each gift valued at VND 100,000) for pupils with good and excellent learning outcomes, 500 kg of rice, 225 pairs of shoes, books, notebooks and other necessities for the school.
Representatives of Vietravel and Lao Cai Young Entrepreneurs’ Association offered gifts to pupils with good and excellent learning outcomes
Gifting to 06 teachers of Ban Khoang lower secondary school and their families
These are significant gifts from the sincere heart of each staff of Vietravel and Lao Cai Young Entrepreneurs’ Association. It is hoped that such practical support will not only help children in the mountainous areas have opportunity to go to school but also help reduce difficulties in life for their parents, relatives and teachers in fostering and educating them.
VIETRAVEL PROMOTES VIETNAM TOURISM IN DUBAI
A celebration party was held by Vietravel at Shangri-la hotel (Dubai) at night, September 30th 2013 to introduce Vietnamese images, culture and gastronomy to leading partners, travel companies and airlines in Dubai.
Mr.Tran Ngoc Thach - Ambassador Extraordinary &amp; Plenipotentiary of S.R Vietnam to The United Arab Emirates was also present at the celebration party.
It can be said that Vietravel has gained prestige in the regional and global travel markets recently.
Thereby, the Vietnam tourism promotion in Dubai this time is under the strategy for development of two-way travel from Dubai to Vietnam and from Vietnam to Dubai.
Vietravel has opened tour route to Dubai since 2008 up to now and for two recent years, Dubai tour has become one of the hottest tours in the distant travel market, apart from tours to the United States, Europe and South Africa, there have been also tours to Dubai and Mauritius Island.
At the celebration party, Vietravel introduced to partners in Dubai with Vietnamese traditional melodies, unique gastronomy together with significant gifts.
All of which were very impressive to partners and guests.
Speaking at the celebration party, Mr.Tran Ngoc Thach - Ambassador Extraordinary &amp; Plenipotentiary of S.R Vietnam to the United Arab Emirates has affirmed his support to and appreciation of Vietravel in promoting, introducing Vietnam tourism in Dubai in particular and in the United Arab Emirates in general.
This was a good opportunity for Vietravel to pioneer in approaching by its capacity and strategic steps.
Vietravel would also receive WTA Award at Annatara Dubai the Palm Resort &amp; Spa at 7 p.m,October 1st 2013 (UAE local time).
Below are some typical images that we recorded at the Vietravel Celebration Party in Dubai:
Guests and partners attended Vietravel Celebration Party in Dubai
Mr. Tran Ngoc Thach - Ambassador Extraordinary &amp; Plenipotentiary of S.R Vietnam to The United Arab Emirates attended Vietravel celebration party in Dubai
Mr. Tran Doan The Duy – Deputy General Director of Vietravel introduced on Vietravel and expressed his desire that cooperation between Vietravel and partners in Dubai would be more and more developed and close-knit in the future
VIETRAVEL NHA TRANG SPONSORS AND HOSTS VIETRAVEL CUP MINI FOOTBALL TOURNAMENT
To commemorate the World Tourism Day (September 27th), and to create close relations with local press agencies, Vietravel Nha Trang sponsored and hosted the first Vietravel Cup Mini Football Tournament 2013.
Vietravel Nha Trang’s football team took part in the tournament together with football teams of local press agencies.
The tournament was held at the coastal city of Nha Trang with the participation of 4 teams from Vietravel Nha Trang, Khanh Hoa Newspaper, Thanh Nien Newspaper, and the resident correspondents’ club in Khanh Hoa province.
Each football team included 5 players on the field.
The teams competed in a single round robin format. Any team among them wining the highest scores would win the championship and Vietravel Cup.
Vietravel Nha Trang’s football team actively practiced in preparation for the tournament to win the highest result.
The team competed wholeheartedly and devoted fair play moments, raised the friendly spirit and close and united relations with local press agencies.
Although it was the first time Vietravel Nha Trang sponsored and hosted such a tournament, it was well successful.
In addition, the tournament also made contribution to enhancing relationship with local press agencies, facilitating communication of Vietravel trademark in the Central Region of Vietnam.
In recent years, Vietravel has not only done business excellently but also become one of leading entities in social and environmental activities.
A part from joining annual sport festival of entire Vietravel, leaders and staffs of Vietravel have also actively joined sport tournaments hosted by relevant agencies and other organizations.
Some images recorded at the tournament:
Vietravel Nha Trang’s football team
Thanh Nien Newspaper’s football team
Football team of the resident correspondents’ club in Khanh Hoa province
Khanh Hoa Newspaper’s football team
The Organizing Board offered pennants football teams
Football teams devoted fair play moments
With final result, Vietravel Nha Trang won the championship
VIETNAM DIVE CENTER (VINADIVING) OPENS MARINE RESCUE DIVER TRAINING COURSE 2013
In the morning, September 23rd 2013, Vietnam Dive Center – Vinadiving (under Vietravel) in coordination with the HCMC Fire Prevention and Fighting Police Department opened “Marine rescue diver training course 2013” for police directly in charge of rescue work in the coastal city of Nha Trang.
Conducted according to a plan of HCMC Fire Prevention and Fighting Police Department on marine rescue diving training 2013 for police directly in charge of rescue work, the Marine rescue diver training course 2013 would be conducted for 10 days in Nha Trang and 20 days in Ho Chi Minh City.
35 polices would be trained in terms of diving skills from the basic to advanced and rescue levels by Vinadiving.
Upon completion of the course, each police would be granted with Certificate of professional rescue diver by the Professional Association of Diving Instructors (PADI).
Vinadiving is an affiliated unit of Vietravel and has been also the first diving center established in Vietnam since 1997.
With strong developments, Vinadiving has been satisfying every demand of clients, ensuring good service quality, absolute safety for visitors attending diving courses or diving tours and also affirmed to be the leading diving center at present.
VIETRAVEL RESPONDS TO MAKING THE WORLD CLEANER CAMPAIGN
The “Making the World Cleaner” Campaign initiated by Australia since 1993 and launched globally by the United Nations Environment Programme (UNEP) has become an important annual international environmental event.
The campaign, which has been held on the third week of September annually, has attracted participation of hundreds of millions of people and over 130 nations.
Accordingly, Vietnam has actively responded to the campaign since 1994 up to now, and ministries, bodies, localities and people of different social strata in Vietnam have been enthusiastically responded to it as well.
The campaign this year is titled as: “Our Place… Our Planet… Our Responsibility”.
Being a leading travel company in Vietnam with its branches and offices nationwide, apart from excellent business, Vietravel has also paid special attention to socially responsible activities.
In 2013, Vietravel has launched the “For clean travel environment” program with a view to realizing the U.N Millennium Development Goals (MDGs) – “Ensuring environmental sustainability”; honoring cultural consciousness of Vietnamese people getting tours in terms of preservation and protection of environment and landscapes.
Thereby, Vietravel in coordination with Department of Culture, Sports and Tourism, and Youth Union in cities and provinces nationwide held launching ceremonies for environmental protection, sanitation, offering autolytic nylon bags to local people.
Concurrently, for visitors getting tours, Vietravel encouraged them in keeping green and clean travel environment by specific activities as follows:
Vietravel offered autolytic nylon bags to visitors;
Encouraging visitors to dispose of waste in the right place and raise high sense of using environmentally-friendly autolytic bags;Tourist guides encouraged visitors to collect waste in cars during their tours;
In addition, Vietravel also encouraged visitors getting tours to join other activities such as: planting trees, collecting waste at parks and on beaches, saving and protecting water resources, educational activities on raising the community’s awareness of environment in responding to the “The “Making the World Cleaner” Campaign.
Socially responsible travel is not a new concept but defined to be the throughout long term and consistent target in sustainable development that needs pioneers and Vietravel has been fulfilling its undertakings with the society actively and bringing about great social effects constituting a beacon for everyone to follow.
Vietravel has officially launched the “For a green and clean travel environment” program since 2013
The program has been continuously launched in cities and provinces nationwide
The program has been actively supported by the community
Vietravel has continuously called for the sharing from the community and visitors
VIETRAVEL VUNG TAU ORGANIZES “AFFECTIONATE FULL-MOON NIGHT” FOR POOR CHILDREN
With a view to bringing about such a significant full-moon night for children in difficult circumstances, on September 18th 2013, Vietravel Vung Tau organized “affectionate full-moon night” for children and families in difficult circumstances in Long Dien district, Ba Ria – Vung Tau province.
With animated drumbeats, colorful and sparkling light, children and families in difficult circumstances enjoyed such a significant, laughing and happy full-moon night.
This was an annual activity conducted and maintained by Vietravel Vung Tau.
In the festival night, Vietravel Vung Tau offered 100 full-moon gifts to children and gifts to local poor families.
This was such a significant activity implemented by Vietravel Vung Tau with a view to fulfilling its social responsibility, sharing and bringing about happiness to those in difficult circumstances.
Representative of Vietravel Vung Tau offered gifts to local people
Offering gifts to children
Children had such a significant full-moon night
VIETRAVEL AWARDED WITH THE “BEST OUTBOUND TRAVEL OPERATOR OF THE YEAR FOR VIETNAM” AWARD FOR THE FIFTH CONSECUTIVE TIME BY FIVE TOURISM MINISTRIES
Under the framework of the International Travel Expo Ho Chi Minh City 2013 (ITE HCMC 2013), the Mekong Tourism Alliance Awards – MTAA2013 was officially held at the White Palace Convention Center on September 11th 2013, and Vietravel was honorably awarded with the “best outbound travel operator of the year for Vietnam” award.
The “Mekong Tourism Alliance Awards” has been annually held to vote and honor leading tour operators in the Region.
The “Mekong Tourism Alliance Awards – MTAA 2013” this year was attended by tour operators coming from five countries namely: Vietnam, Laos, Cambodia, Myanmar and Thailand.
Representing Vietnam, Vietravel was honorably awarded with the “Best outbound travel operator of the year for Vietnam” award for the fifth consecutive time.
Vietravel satisfied all voting criteria of the award in terms of: new and diversified tour products; reasonable price; diversified options for visitors; good quality customer services with criteria: obtaining trust from consumers, interested by the press, awards; sustainable tourism development in close connection with practical activities.
Mr. Vo Quang Lien Kha – Deputy General Director of Vietravel received the award at MTAA 2013
This award was the acknowledgement of clients, prestigious tour operators in terms of quality and tourist services of Vietravel.
This was the result of constant effort and improvement aimed at better serving clients and making contribution to tourism development of Vietnam.
This encouragement would be a motive force for Vietravel to constantly make efforts and better serve clients as well as affirm its pioneering position as the leading tour operator in Vietnam.
NEW HIGHLIGHTS OF VIETRAVEL AT ITE 2013:
The International Travel Expo (ITE) 2013 titled as “Vietnam – Oriental Colors - Kaleidoscope” will be held at the Saigon Exhibition &amp; Convention Center (SECC), Phu My Hung from 12th to 14th September 2013.
Vietravel will bring about a Vietnamese cultural space which is imbued with Vietnamese cultural tradition and emotional.
This is the 9th year ITE has been annually held in Ho Chi Minh City with a view to maintaining the targets to attract buyers coming from markets in the world to seek for opportunities of cooperation for mutual development in services, tourism with countries in the Southeast Asian countries. In which, ITE has attracted participation of Cambodia, Laos, Thailand and Myanmar with more and more improved quality and has become the most significant travel event in the Mekong Region.
Vietravel is proud of have been the “Official carrier and official tour operator of ITE 2013 in Ho Chi Minh City”.
Vietravel is one of leading tour operators in Vietnam in operating tours for international visitors for years with many attractive products ranging from discovery and adventure tours to MICE tours, tours to experience local life and learn about culture of regions domestically and internationally.
This year, Vietravel will join ITE 2013 at booth C18, with its title “Vietnam – Oriental Colors - Kaleidoscope”.
On an area of 36m2, Vietravel will introduce a Vietnamese cultural space in the past and at present with daily life images which arouse much of emotion in mind of audiences, on ancient quarter in Hanoi with animated living and trading views, Hoi An Ancient Town tranquil and peaceful by the side of Hoai River, ancient building currently used as the headquarters of the People’s Committee of Ho Chi Minh City…
From 9 a.m to 5 p.m every day during the ITE, Vietravel will introduce to domestic and international visitors with a series of new autumnal tours, demand-stimulus tours in coordination with its partners.
Vietravel will also operate sightseeing tours for international buyers to discover famous tourist destinations in Vietnam.
Thereby, U.S buyers will visit Da Nang – Hoi An; German buyers will visit Phan Thiet; British, Italian and Canadian buyers will visit Phan Thiet and Indonesian buyers will visit Ho Tram – Vung Tau.
A part from activities and events, Vietravel is also voted and awarded with Mekong Tourism Alliance Awards – MTAA 2013 with title “Outbound Travel Operator of the Year for Vietnam”.
The Award Ceremony will be held at the White Palace Convention Center with Mekong Tourism Alliance Awards (MTAA) Ceremony – with the theme Mekong Colors Festival Night.
VIETRAVEL LONG XUYEN IN COMPANIONSHIP WITH THE “GIVING ADDED STRENGTH TO SCHOOL” PROGRAM
Succeeding activities for the community in 2013, Vietravel Long Xuyen followed up the “Giving added strength to school” program to offer bicycles and learning aids to pupils of schools in Long Xuyen city, Tri Ton district, and Thoai Son district of An Giang province.
Representatives of Vietravel Long Xuyen were present at the opening ceremony of the new school year at Dinh My lower secondary school (Thoai Son district, An Giang province) on September 5th 2013 and offered 5 bicycles to excellent pupils in difficult circumstances.
Happiness to receive new bicycles as means of going to school brightly appeared in the eyes and smiles of pupils.
This was also happiness and motive force for Vietravel to continue its mission of sharing for the community by practical activities.
Representative of Vietravel Long Xuyen offered bicycles to pupils at the opening ceremony of the new school year
Actively in social activities, Vietravel has pioneered in launching many significant programs and activities and successfully called for the sharing from the community.
In 2013, Vietravel launched the “Travel for a clean and green environment” program in Ho Chi Minh City, provinces and cities nationwide.
This program was largely cared and supported by visitors and people.
Also in 2013, Vietravel has also launched the second “Vietravel in companionship with Vietnamese talents” scholarship program 2013.
Thereby, Vietravel would offer 43 scholarships (VND 10,000,000/scholarship) to new excellent students in difficult circumstances of universities nationwide.
Vietravel branches in cities and provinces would also launch specific and appropriates programs.
In the coming time, Vietravel Long Xuyen would continue offering bicycles and learning aids to pupils of other schools in the province.
Road to school has been shorter thanks to gifts offered by Vietravel
VIETRAVEL HAI PHONG FOLLOWED UP “FOR GREEN ENVIRONMENT OF THE SEA AND ISLANDS” PROGRAM
In the morning, 6th September 2013, Vietravel Hai Phong in coordination with the branch of GE Vietnam Co.,Ltd in Hai Phong followed up the “For green environment of the sea and islands” program at Cat Ba islandish district.
This was a practical activity showing the effect and pervasion of the “Travel for green and clean environment” program launched by Vietravel in 2013.
Vietravel Hai Phong and branch of GE Vietnam Co.,Ltd in Hai Phong, that booked “Hai Phong – Cat Ba” tour for its staff at Vietravel, coordinated in holding a voluntary day of GE Vietnam Co.,Ltd in Hai Phong.
Thereby, hundreds of staffs of GE Vietnam Co.,Ltd and Vietravel Hai Phong together joined the “For green environment of the sea and islands” program.
Volunteers swept garbage at Tung Thu beach (Hai Phong) and propagandized to visitors and local people on the sense of environmental protection.
Speaking at the opening ceremony, Mr.Michael Zhang – General Director of GE Vietnam Co.,Ltd said that: “This is a significant social activity bringing about active effect to the environment.
This is also an occasion for GE staffs to remember and raise high sense of environmental protection, thereby to become ambassadors of the environment at their work and living places.”
Vietravel has officially launched the “Travel for a green and clean environment” program firstly in Ho Chi Minh City since February 2013.
In other cities and provinces nationwide, Vietravel in coordination with such localities has successively followed up phases in 2013.
In addition, Vietravel has also flexibly included social and environmental activities in tour products to call for the participation of visitors.
This program has been actively cared and supported by the community, especially corporate clients.
Thanks to such support and coordination, Vietravel together with entities has designed holiday and sightseeing tours in combination with social activities to make them extended and pervasive to everyone.
CEREMONY OF NEW COMMUNIST PARTY MEMBERS ADMISSION ORGANIZED BY VIETRAVEL
On August 3rd 2013, Vietravel Party Committee organized the Ceremony of New Communist Party Members Admission to admit five applicants who are excellent staff of Vietravel with consistent political virtue and have made significant contributions to the development of Vietravel.
Vietravel is not only the leading prestigious tour operator in Vietnam but also a pioneer in social and charitable activities towards the community.
In addition, Vietravel has also focused on fostering knowledge and developing a qualified group of staff with excellently professional qualification to satisfy its business needs in the period of international integration.
In parallel with business, Vietravel has also enhanced developing new communist party members from its excellent staff with consistent political virtue in order to realize its designed targets.
With such targets, on August 3rd 2013, Vietravel Party Committee organized the Ceremony of New Communist Party Members Admission to admit five applicants including comradeNguyen Tan Long (Deputy Director of Green Leaf Tour Center), comrade Do Tan Cao Phu(Deputy Head of Information Technology Department), comrade Duong Quang Binh (Deputy Director of Vietravel Branch in Da Nang), comrade Tran Thi Ngoc Tu (Vietravel Branch in Da Nang), and comrade Nguyen The Hung (Information Technology Department).
This event once again shows the care of Vietravel Party Committee in finding, fostering and admitting qualified applicants to the communist party and building up strong Vietravel Party Committee.
This is also great encouragement for staff to constantly study, self-improve and make efforts to fulfill their works at any working positions, and more qualified applicants will be admitted to the communist party in the coming time.
Leaders and staff of Vietravel faithfully congratulate five new communist party members and hope to see their constant contributions to the development of Vietravel.
Below are some images of the Ceremony of New Communist Party Members Admission:
Comrades admitted to the communist party took their oaths
Comrade Nguyen Quoc Ky – Secretary of the Party Committee awarded Decision on Party Member Admission and congratulatory flowers to new communist party members
OPEN TENNIS TOURNAMENT OF TENNIS CLUBS IN BINH DINH PROVINCE – VIETRAVEL CUP 2013
A part from Vietravel’s sponsoring for national tennis championships in 2013 with sponsoring value amounted to VND 2 billion, Vietravel has also sponsored for the Open Tennis Tournament of Tennis Clubs in Binh Dinh province – Vietravel Cup 2013.
The opening ceremony will be started at Quy Nhon stadium at 17h00 on July 26th 2013.
It can be said that in support to events of culture and sports in Vietnam, Vietravel has been the most active entity in sponsoring regional cultural events such as: the Traditional Boat Race of Hue Festival in 2008, Bac Ha Horse Race – Lao Cai in 2012, and in 2013, Vietravel would sponsor for other cultural festivals in other regions such as Bay Nui (Seven Mountains) Bull-Racing Festival in An Giang…
In addition, one of sports specially sponsored by Vietravel is tennis which is regarded as an impressive point because it attracts a large number of fans to practise.
A part from sponsoring for National Tennis Championships hosted by Vietnam Tennis Federation (VTF) from 2012 to 2015, Vietravel has also financially supported to open tennis tournaments at the regional level hosted by provinces, of which the Open Tennis Tournament of Tennis Clubs in Binh Dinh province – Vietravel Cup 2013 hosted by Binh Dinh province has attracted over 150 tennis players from 8 provinces and cities namely Quang Ngai, Gia Lai, Dak Lak, Khanh Hoa, Lam Dong, Quang Nam, and Ninh Thuan.
Vietravel has been the main sponsor for the National Tennis Championships in the period 2012 - 2015
(Photo: The Team Tennis National Championship – Vietravel Cup 2013 held at Tuyen Son Tennis Court, Danang)
The opening ceremony will be started at 17h00 on July 26th and the closing ceremony will be ended at 18h00 on July 28th 2013 at Quy Nhon stadium as expected.
This tournament is promisingly hoped to be good and attract a large number of spectators in Binh Dinh province and become a regular tournament of Binh Dinh province.
Vietravel has honor to be the main sponsor for this tournament.
VIETRAVEL RAISED FUND IN SUPPORT TO THE “FISHING-NETS OF LOVE FOR FISHERMEN IN PARACEL ISLANDS AND SPRATLY ISLANDS” PROGRAM
On July 20th 2013, Vietravel in coordination with the Labour Newspaper and Vietnam General Confederation of Labour launched the “Fishing-nets of love for fishermen in Paracel Islands and Spratly Islands” program which was one of events of the Year of socially responsible travel in 2013.
A part from the business target to achieve turnover of VND 3,000 billion in 2013, Vietravel also determined that the year 2013 was the year of socially and environmentally responsible travel.
Of which, for socially responsible activities, Vietravel always pioneered in launching many programs suchas: raising charitable fund for “Warm coats for children in need” program – warm coats were prepared by Vietravel staff and visitors to gift to the elderly and children in mountainous areas, imbued with sentimental attachment or “Life for Light” fund aimed at free ocular surgery for about 1,800 poor patients nationwide since 2010 up to now. Succeeding such activities, in summer 2013, in the North Vietnam, Vietravel in coordination with the Labour Newspaper and Vietnam General Confederation of Labour raised fund in suppor to the “Fishing-nets of love for fishermen in Paracel Islands and Spratly Islands” program.
The program would be launched at all Vietravel branches in the North Vietnam ranging from Lao Cai, Hanoi to Hai Phong.
The special characteristic of this program was that Vietravel not only encouraged its staff to join the program but also popularized to each visitor to join such significant humanity program.
Staff of Vietravel branch in Hanoi joined the program
Thereby, fund for the “Fishing-nets of love” program would be raised by sending message, cost of each message would be VND 14,000.
Clients booking for tours with Vietravel sending supportive message would not be charged for cost of message, but to be directly deducted from their tour costs.
As such, for each tour booked with Vietravel, clients successfully made contribution to raising fund for the program and brought about opportunities for compatriot fishermen to have peace of mind and live with the sea.
According to Ms, Ngoc, a client of Vietravel, as known about this program, said that: “ I am very emotional to think that such small amount of money would contribute to sharing difficulties and misfortune of fishermen and helping them have peace of mind to hold on to the land, the sea.
And when the program is launched, I will join”.
Staff of Vietravel branch in Lao Cai actively joined the program immediately after the program was launched
The program was launched at Vietravel branch in Hai Phong
Happiness on each face of poor fishermen was a great encouragement for staff of Vietravel to constantly work and continue contributing to the society because the business mission was in close connection with the responsibility to the community and better living environmental protection.
The program, as expected, would attract the participation of 4,000 – 5,000 clients in the North Vietnam and if successful, it would be launched nationwide.
Vietravel hoped that, with such significant humanity program, all staff of Vietravel as well as staff of other companies and clients would further understand and sympathize with the life of poor fishermen fishing in the Paracel Islands and Spratly Islands, and practically support and continue joining the next charitable and voluntary programs of Vietravel.
THAILAND TOURS WITH SPECIAL DISCOUNT
Vietravel has offered a new and attractive promotional program.
Thereby, the first 30 clients (of each tour) booking for Thailand tours with date of departure from August 3rd 2013 to August 27th 2013 will get shocking and special discount.
Concretely, there will be many Thailand tours departed each day and for each tour, Vietravel will offer special discount for the first 30 clients booking for Thailand tour with date of departure from August 3rd 2013 to August 27th 2013.
Thereby, VND 1,000,000 will be discounted for the 1st to 10th clients, and VND 500,000 will be discounted for the 11th to 20th clients, and VND 200,000 will be discounted for the 21st to 30th clients.
This promotional program is applicable to Vietravel’s clients departing from Ho Chi Minh City.
This is a “booking early, getting best price” strategy launched by Vietravel with a view to providing maximal support to clients booking Thailand tour on this summer occasion.
At present, Vietravel has the highest frequency of Thailand tours departure with 4 to 8 tours departed each day, so that clients can get Thailand tour at any time in the day with Vietravel, there is no need to take much time to choose because the core values of the tour expected are: High satisfaction to service quality, hospitable, professional and responsible serving attitude, and also constituting the best competitive price in the travel industry, which are regarded as prerequisite factors by Vietravel in serving and developing its trademark, trusted and supported by a large number of clients.
For consecutive years, Vietravel has been recognized by the Tourism Authority of Thailand (TAT) as the tour operator organizing Thailand tours with the highest number of tourists together with "The Friends of Thailand" award.
he Temple of the Emerald Buddha and the Grand Palace are two famous destinations that you should visit when traveling to Thailand
Further information about Thailand tours is available at: https://travel.com.vn/du-lich/221/519-All-0/0/0000/danh-sach-tour.aspx
VIETRAVEL OFFERS SCHOOL BAGS FROM JULY 15TH 2013
It can be said that customer care is an art; an enterprise should quickly understand demands and offer options for clients to easily choose and perceive enthusiastic preparation of such enterprise.
Among clients, kid “God” is easily ignored, but it is contrary at Vietravel.
Kids have much time to entertain in summer in compensation for learning days to get energy for a new school year.
Many kids travel with their families overseas to get further knowledge of cultures and new discoveries.
To satisfy such demands, Vietravel, a part from offering new tours for families to Thailand, the United States with regionally and globally famous entertainment areas, has also applied its policy of special gifts offered to kids at the age less than 12 getting outbound tour with their families at Vietravel.
Gift is a pretty school bag featuring animated summer as impression of summer holidays 2013.
This program is applicable in Ho Chi Minh City and in the Southeastern provinces (Dong Nai, Vung Tau, Binh Duong) from July 15th to emptiness of gifts.
Kids will have two options to receive special gift that is a school bag or a gift offered under the tour.
All gifts are also attractive and particularly convenient but school bag is an option that kids should care of because summer is going by and a new school year is coming.
School bag – a significant gift offered by Vietravel to pupils on the occasion of new school year
At present, Vietravel offers new Thailand family tours on this summer occasion to families with kids with two travel itineraries for 5 days and 6 days.
Such tours are not only attractive in terms of price, but also open up an opportunity for kids to discover new destinations such as: Dream World, Underwater World…while adults will be still comfortable to visit Pattaya coastal city and Bangkok. shopping paradise.
It is known that Dream World, that is located at the center of Bangkok Capital, and regarded as the little Disneyland, is the leading amusement park in Thailand, interested by Thai people who usually take their children to entertain here at weekends and on summer holidays.
There are many extremely exciting entertainment activities and for kids ranging from light to strong feeling games such as “Hollywood action”.
A part from games, Dream World also attracts kids by legendary space with characters from legendary stories.
The park has been divided into several zones with main destinations namely Fantasy Land, Dream Garden, Dream World Plaza and Adventure Land.
Among them, Fantasy Land is the land of legendary stories with Cinderella, Frog Prince, Snow White and the Seven Dwarfs…
Dream Garden is a legendary flower garden with colorful flowers blossoming in four seasons.
Dream World Plaza brings about European space with paths filled with colorful flowers that you can take photographs pleasingly, and Adventure Land is a destination where you will have opportunity to experience action games, mysterious adventures.
If not available with opportunity to discover oceanic life in the cool sea water, our kids can still have opportunity to wallow in the lively space of the Underwater World which is the largest and most modern ocean aquarium in the South East Asia.
The aquarium houses more than 4,000 marine animals, comprising more than 200 different species.
You will walk a round the state-of-the-art acrylic underwater tunnel through an underwater environment filled with dozens of colorful marine species and coral reef as if you were walking in the ocean.
There are also sharks and smaller creatures living in this underwater world, it is very exciting for you to discover and take photographs at any time and from anywhere.
New Thailand family tour information:
NEW “BANGKOK - PATTAYA” TOUR (5 days)
Price: ranging from VND 6,690,000/pax
Departure: on Tuesday, Thursday, and Friday every week
NEW “BANGKOK - PATTAYA” TOUR (6 days)
Price: ranging from VND 6,990,000 /pax
Departure: 11, 16, 25 /6 ; 2, 09, 14, 23, 30/7
Contact: Vietravel - 190 Pasteur, Ward 6, District 3, Ho Chi Minh City.
Tel: (08) 3822 8898 - Ext: 150, 151, 152.
Hotline: 0938 301388.
Vietravel booking offices in Ho Chi Minh City:
• Nguyen Hue: 75 Nguyen Hue Street, Ben Nghe Ward, District 1, Tel: (08) 3914 1301
• Bui Vien: 37 Bui Vien Street, Pham Ngu Lao Ward, District 1, Tel: (08) 3920 9373
• Tan Dinh: 35 Tran Quoc Toan Street, Ward 8, District 3, Tel: (08) 3820 6777
 • Cho Lon: 30 Chau Van Liem Street, Ward 10, District 5, Tel: (08) 3853 723
 • Phu My Hung: 1409 Nguyen Van Linh Street, Tan Phong Ward, District 7, Tel: (08) 5412 2777
• District 10: 505 Le Hong Phong Street, Ward 3, District 10, Tel: (08) 3835 6460
 • District 11: 1456E 3/2 Street, Ward 2, District 11, Tel: (08) 3969 9439
 • Cong Hoa: 492 Cong Hoa Street, Ward 13, Tan Binh District, Tel: (08) 3810 2409
 • Au Co: 286 Au Co Street, Ward 9, Tan Binh District, Tel: (08) 3975 5011
 • Tan Binh: 1130 CMT8 Street, Ward 4, Tan Binh District, Tel: (08) 3948 2232
 • Phu Nhuan: 32A Phan Dang Luu Street, Binh Thanh District, Tel: (08) 3551 2345
 • Quang Trung: 37 Quang Trung Street, Ward 10, Go Vap District, Tel: (08) 3989 9334
 • Thu Duc: 142 Vo Van Ngan Street, Thu Duc District, Tel: (08) 3722 5507/508.
Vietravel branches in the South-Eastern Region and the South-Western Region of Vietnam:
• DONG NAI: 242 30/4 Street, Thanh Binh Ward, Bien Hoa City, Tel: (0613) 948 930
• BINH DUONG: 655 CMT8 Street, Phu Cuong Ward, Thu Dau Mot Town, Binh Duong, Tel: (0650) 38 82 888
• VUNG TAU: 17 Ba Cu Street, Ward 1, Vung Tau City, Tel: (064) 38 38 138
• BA RIA TRANSACTION OFFICE ( VUNG TAU BRANCH): 33 Le Quy Don Street, Phuoc Trung Ward, Ba Ria City, Tel: (064) 37 38 338
• CAN THO: No.5 Tran Van Kheo Street, Ninh Kieu District, Can Tho City, Tel: (0710) 376 3085
• LONG XUYEN : 23A Ly Thai To Street, My Long Ward, Long Xuyen City, Tel: (076) 3923567
• PHU QUOC: No.53, 30/4 Street, Duong Dong Town, Phu Quoc District, Kien Giang, Tel: (077) 3996 544.
And Vietravel's branches and offices nationwide or visit our online booking website atwww.travel.com.vn
VIETRAVEL TRAINING CENTER (VIETC) – FORMATION AND DEVELOPMENT AFTER 4 YEARS AND ITS LEADING QUALITY OF TRAINING IN TOURISM AFFIRMED
The 4th Anniversary (17/7/2009 – 17/7/2013) of Vietravel Training Center (VIETC) was formally held on July 19th 2013.
For 4 years of development, VIETC has affirmed its position as the leading prestigious provider of tourism training in Vietnam up to now.
VIETC under Vietravel was established on July 17th 2009 with targets aimed at training high quality human resource for Vietravel in particular, for tourism industry of Ho Chi Minh City and nationwide in general.
Over each stage of formation and development, VIETC has hold tens of travel operations training courses and successfully trained hundreds of trainees.
Trainees after graduation from the center have also successfully got employment by themselves at travel companies, and many excellent trainees of them have been recruited to work directly for Vietravel.
Also at the 4th Anniversary of VIETC, a course-ending ceremony was held for over 90 trainees of classes namely tour sale and operation, tourist guide, and an opening ceremony for classes tour sale and operation K22, and air ticket booking K4 were also held at this 4th Anniversary as well.
Deeply understanding market demands when corporate clients have had more and more demands on organizing events, animations, teambuilding and gala, since July 2013, VIETC has opened the first training course on “Animation and Event Management Skills” with training duration for 2.5 months, flexibly held at nights, and taught by well qualified and experienced lecturers who would provide practically useful knowledge to trainees.
Lecturer Huynh Huu Tam, who is one of the pioneers imparting Teambuilding to Vietnam and the main lecturer of the training subject, said that:”With the “theory-combined practice” training program designed, trainees would have two thirds (2/3) of learning time to practise and experience at Vietravel and practical programs and events, accordingly, after graduation, such trainees would have sufficient knowledge and skills to work effectively”.
Some images of the 4th Anniversary:
Mr. Nguyen Minh Ngoc – Deputy General Director of Vietravel spoke at the 4th Anniversary
Mr. Nguyen Thanh Hai – Director of Vietravel Training Center spoke at the 4th Anniversary
Mr. Nguyen Minh Ngoc – Deputy General Director of Vietravel offered congratulatory flowers to lecturers of Vietravel Training Center
Mr. Nguyen Thanh Hai – Director of Vietravel Training Center offered congratulatory flowers to lecturers who are staff of Vietravel
Mr. Nguyen Minh Ngoc – Deputy General Director of Vietravel offered rewards to trainees who excellently passed the final examinations
Course-ending and graduation ceremony
Alumni representative of Vietravel Training Center, who was recruited to work directly for Vietravel,shared her ideas with trainees
Trainees taken photograph with their lecturers at the course-ending ceremony
All have been ready to get successes with their “knowledge and skills”
Contact:
VIETRAVEL TRAINING CENTER
No.35 Tran Quoc Toan Street, Ward 8, District 3, Ho Chi Minh City Tel: (08) 3 820 8129 - Fax: (08) 38 208 130
VIETRAVEL ATTENDED RECRUITMENT AT RMIT CAREERS FAIR
To practically launch vocational guidance and make connection to bringing employment opportunities to students, on July 12th 2013, RMIT University organized Careers Fair 2013 at Nguyen Van Linh Street, District 7, Ho Chi Minh City with many activities set for employers and students.
Vietravel was honored to be the Gold Sponsor and present at the booth No.40 at this careers fair.
The Careers Fair 2013 held by RMIT University was an annual event attracting participation of big companies and groups so that this was a good occasion for students to seek for desired employment opportunities.
The Careers Fair 2013, which was held at the Gymnasium of RMIT University (No.72, Nguyen Van Linh Street, District 7, Ho Chi Minh City) from 9h – 15h on July 12th 2013, attracted nearly 100 employers and expected to welcome approximately 4,000 students.
A lot of students visited Vietravel booth and submitted their application documents
Vietravel booth was located at position No.40 where students would have opportunities to seek for attractive jobs at different positions such as: travel agent, air ticket agent, operator, service procurement staff, accountant, labour export staff, communication specialist, marketing staff, personnel staff, general administrative staff.
Students filled in application forms Students not only found a lot of employment opportunities at Vietravel booth but also specifically advised by Vietravel staff in terms of jobs as well as how to finalize their application documents
Vietravel is the leading tour operator in Vietnam with its development for nearly 18 years, together with over 900 staff.
In order to continue satisfying demands and prepare highly qualified human resource for development strategy and extend domestic and foreign operating network, Vietravel has regularly attended career promotion activities and organized recruitments, including enhancement of direct contacts and recruitment from universities and colleges nationwide.
Vietravel is a dynamic and professional working environment paying the way for the success of young people
Directing towards the vision 2015 – 2020, Vietravel focuses on improving service quality, diversifying product categories towards clients’ interests, thereby the objective is to become the first multi-national tour operator in Vietnam in 2015 and listed in the Top 10 leading tour operators in Asia in 2020.
In order to obtain the designed objective, Vietravel always pays special attention to human resource development, regularly organizes professional training courses for employees.
Vietravel creates a dynamic, professional and friendly working environment and opens opportunities for promotion.
At Vietravel, each staff is a core, an important link to perfect the entire apparatus, pioneers in renovation to bring to clients the best satisfaction and trust.
A NEW TRANSACTION OFFICE OF THE WORLDTICKET (WTS) OPENED
In order to make it easy for clients to transact, a new transaction office of the WorldTicket under Vietnam Travel and Marketing Transports Company (Vietravel) was officially opened at No.90A Nguyen Thi Minh Khai Street, Ward 6, District 3, Ho Chi Minh City on July 12th 2013.
The new office is located at the Pasteur &amp; Nguyen Thi Minh Khai crossroads (District 3, HCMC) – No.90A Nguyen Thi Minh Khai Street, Ward 6, District 3, Ho Chi Minh City. With such a favourable location in the economic and commercial center of Ho Chi Minh City, it is easy for clients to transact for buying air tickets, train tickets, and passenger services for their travel: hotel reservation; transport service, airport passenger support service, travel insurance agent, Visa &amp; Immigration support service, Free &amp; Easy tour, cruise agent, RailEurope agent…
With earnest investment aimed at bringing to clients a friendly and comfortable place of transaction, professionally trained consultants who have well experienced for nearly 18 years, and with kind support and cooperation from airlines, and leading domestic and foreign prestigious service suppliers, the WorldTicket will always bring to clients satisfaction and trust in using services, and direct towards maximal interests of WTS’s clients.
You can directly transact with WTS from 8:00 – 21:00 everyday, including Saturday, Sunday and Holidays, or contact the Call Center at: 1900 1839 for 24/24 service support.
rofessionally trained and well experienced staff of WTS always bring about best satisfaction to clients
With 24/24 servicing policy, clients are best served and advised at any time on their demand by WTS staff
On this occasion, the WorldTicket has officially opened its website: www.ticketglobal.com which is the first online booking channel in Vietnam, and clients can easily buy tickets from their houses.
And the fast check-in service has been also opened, clients can select their airline seats and check in without queuing up at the airport when they buy tickets at the WorldTicket.
In order to express gratitude to clients, the WorldTicket has offered a special promotional program titled as “Let’s fly with pleasure – instantly get preferences” applicable from July 12th to August 12th 2013 for all clients who buy air tickets at the WorldTicket office - No.90A Nguyen Thi Minh Khai Street, Ward 6, District 3, Ho Chi Minh City with attractive preferences as follows:
- Offering 50% of AIG travel premium (from 4 to 6 days) for the first 50 clients buying international air tickets for flights in the Southeast Asian Region.
- Clients transacting, booking air tickets and services online at the website www.ticketglobal.com in the period from July 12th to August 12th 2013 will have opportunity to win “VND 0 air ticket each week”.
Concretely, clients will have opportunity to buy air ticket for the air route from HCMC to Da Nang, Singapore or vice versa from Da Nang, Singapore to HCMC at VND 0.
Accordingly, 16 VND 0 air tickets under this program will be randomly set on corresponding air tickets at the website www.ticketglobal.com.
And clients upon making online payment for air tickets will receive random wining notice from the system.
If wining, he or she will be refunded with all amounts for air ticket paid before that at WTS.
Booking air tickets and services online at the website www.ticketglobal.com on the opening occasion, clients will have opportunity to win “VND 0 air ticket each week”.
In addition, clients will also have opportunity to join the promotional “Hello Summer 2013” program titled as “Let’s get easy summer tour – win a stylish motorbike” launched by Vietravel from May 20th to August 17th 2013.
Accordingly, with each VND 10,000,000 paid, clients will get 01 lucky draw with opportunity to win 01 Yamaha Nouvo GP motorbike each week and special prize at the end of the term would be 01 pair of Yamaha Nouvo GP motorbikes.
Contact information:
WORLDTICKET - No.90A Nguyen Thi Minh Khai Street, Ward 6, District 3, Ho Chi Minh City.
Call center: 1900 18 39
Website: www.ticketglobal.com
VIETRAVEL FINANCIALLY SPONSORED FOR THE 6TH NATIONAL TOURISM ART PHOTO “VIETNAM – TIMELESS CHARM” CONTEST
After 5 months of launch, the 6th National Tourism Art Photo “Vietnam – Timeless Charm” Contest held by Vietnam Tourism Review under the direction of Vietnam National Administration of Tourism (VNAT) and with coordination and sponsorship by Vietnam Association of Photographic Artists attracted enthusiastic participation of domestic and foreign photographers.
The Organizing Board received 6,466 photos (including 6,011 color photos, 455 black and white photos) by 590 authors from 61 provinces and cities nationwide.
Hanoi accounted for the highest number of authors joining the contest with 114 authors and 1,599 photos, Ho Chi Minh City with 73 authors and 874 photos.
The Organizing Board selected 164 arts works of which there were 12 prize arts works to display at the 6th National Tourism Art Photo “Vietnam – Timeless Charm” Exhibition at the Information and Exhibition Center, 45 Trang Tien Street, Hoan Kiem District, Hanoi from 5th to 9th July 2013.
Speaking at the Award Ceremony, VNAT’s Deputy Director General Nguyen Manh Cuong – Head of the Organizing Board expressed that “the 6th National Tourism Art Photo “Vietnam – Timeless Charm” Contest has attracted the highest number of authors and arts works ever before, with quality highly appreciated by the Board of Examiners.
This is a diversified and valuable material reserve for organizations, enterprises to popularize and introduce images of the country &amp; people of Vietnam to domestic and foreign visitors.
We are proud of images of the country &amp; people of Vietnam via the contest works…”
As the leading tour operator in Vietnam, Vietravel was honored to be the sponsor for this Contest with a view to making contribution to popularizing Vietnam tourism images via moments of life and lands – which would be ideal destinations for domestic and foreign visitors.
Vietravel respectfully congratulates winners of this Contest
01 First Prize:
Arts work: Hospitality - Author: Vu Thanh Chung (Hanoi)
02 Second Prizes:
Arts work: Floating market on New Year’s Eve – Author: Nguyen Bach Thao (Vinh Long)
Arts work: Animated My Son - Author: Vo Dong Bay (Thua Thien – Hue)
Arts work: Ron rang My Son (Animated My Son)
03 Third Prizes:
Arts work: Sa Pa beauty – Author: Vu Ngoc Hoang (Khanh Hoa)
Arts work: Rhythm on the river – Author: Tran Vu Dzung (Ho Chi Minh City)
Arts work: Paddy fragnance – Author: Tuan Nghia (Yen Bai)
Arts work: Nhip dieu tren song (Rhythm on the river)
06 Consolation Prizes:
Arts work: Buffalo killing festival of the Catu ethnic minority in Quang Nam – Author: Ong Van Sinh (Da Nang)
Arts work: Ban Gioc Waterfall Timeless Charm - Author: Nguyen Minh Tan (Ho Chi Minh City)
Arts work: Mu Cang Chai Terraced Fields - Author: Binh Nguyen (Ninh Binh)
Arts work: Resounding Forever - Author: Tran Nhan Quyen (Hanoi)
Arts work: Lighthouse on Cat Ba – Long Chau Island - Author: Vu Dzung (Hai Phong)
Arts work: Spratly Islands - Author: Vu Hai.
500 POOR PATIENTS IN KHANH KHOA PROVINCE SPONSORED BY VIETRAVEL FOR OCULAR SURGERY
On 27th and 28th June 2013, Vietravel coordinated with HCMC Sponsoring Association for Poor Patients, Ninh Hoa Hospital, and Cam Ranh Hospital to perform ocular surgery for 500 poor patients in Khanh Hoa province.
This was one of events of the Responsible Travel Year 2013 by Vietravel.
With a view to realizing the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs) of the United Nations, towards the local community, a part from business target of obtaining turnover of VND 3,000 billion in 2013, since 2012 up to now, Vietravel has been a Main Sponsor, and stood side by side with HCMC Sponsoring Association for Poor Patients in ocular surgery to light to the poor blinds nationwide.
Up to now, Vietravel has sponsored for 1,800 ocular surgery cases.
Particularly in 2013, Vietravel planned to sponsor for over 600 ocular surgery cases towards compatriots in the Central Region and the Southwestern Region of Vietnam.
On 27th and 28th June 2013, ocular surgery would be performed for about 500 poor patients in Khanh Hoa province at Ninh Hoa Hospital and Cam Ranh Hospital.
Present at the ceremony of eye bandage removal for poor patients were representatives of the provincial authorities, leaders from Vietravel and HCMC Sponsoring Association for Poor Patients.
Happiness on each face of poor patients is great encouragement for Vietravel leaders and staff to constantly work and contribute to the society because business mission is in close connection with responsibility to the community, society and makes contribution to protecting better and better living environment.
Vietravel is currently the number one tour operator in Vietnam and in the Top 16 leading tour operators in Asia.
Vietravel has 42 branches and offices nationwide and 5 representative offices, travel agencies in foreign countries such as the United States of America, Thailand, Cambodia.
Particularly in Khanh Hoa province, Vietravel has established the first scuba diving center in Vietnam (Vinadive) at No.
23D Biet Thu, Nha Trang City, and at Nha Trang city center, Vietravel has also opened its branch at No.100 Quang Trung street, Nha Trang City.
As planned, Vietravel will continue coordinating with HCMC Sponsoring Association for Poor Patients, Thot Not Hospital (in Can Tho) to perform ocular surgery for 200 poor patients from the Southwestern provinces in Vietnam on July 9th 2013.
Some images of the ocular surgery program in Khanh Hoa province
Patients instructed for medical formalities by doctors before ocular surgery
Ocular and health examination of patient before ocular surgery
Doctors perform ocular surgery for patient
Vietravel representative removes eye bandage from patients
Doctors re-examine ocular status of patients after ocular surgery
VIETRAVEL BRANCH OPENED IN PHAN THIET
In order to constantly develop a system of branches and offices in key provinces and cities with advantages of tourism nationwide, Vietravel officially opened its 42nd branch in Phan Thiet city on March 26th 2013.
This has been the 3rd branch opened since the beginning of this year up to now, after its two transaction offices opened in Ba Ria and Tan Binh (HCMC).
With a view to quickly satisfying travel demands of clients in Phan Thiet city, Binh Thuan province and adjacent areas, Vietravel has determined Phan Thiet city as a key spot, which is either a spot of departure or spot of arrival by domestic and foreign visitors, and needs investing and expanding.
With such an important position, Vietravel Phan Thiet is making the best of advantages in terms of service quality, reasonable price, high frequency of departures to create its difference in the travel market and attract local clients.
Located at the city center, concretely at No.137 Tran Hung Dao street, Phu Thuy ward, Phan Thiet city, Binh Thuan province, Vietravel Phan Thiet fully offers services, inbound and outbound tours for local people, Groups and Corporations and international visitors.
It also satisfies quickly clients’ demands on air ticket booking, hotel reservation, means of transport, and gastronomy.
Phan Thiet is a coastal city with much potential and strong development of tourism, attracting a lot of domestic and foreign visitors.
Vietravel has soon determined and opened its branch here to better serve its domestic visitors from other regions in Vietram and foreign visitors in Phan Thiet as well as timely satisfy local demands on travel.
Vietravel representative and distinguished guest cut the inauguration band at the Vietravel Phan Thiet Opening Ceremony
It is known that Vietravel has had 42 branches and offices nationwide and 5 representative offices and travel agencies in Thailand, Cambodia, and the United States of America.
With the client-centered approach, Vietravel is a tour operator with the highest number of clients at present to travel markets such as Cambodia, Thailand, Singapore, Malaysia, Hong Kong, Japan, Korea, The United States of America, Europe, Dubai and South Africa.
With close partnership policy, Vietravel always offers competitive price and best services in the markets, and plays the leading position in terms of promotion and after-sales policies for clients, who will feel the difference in terms of Vietravel services, added interests from Vietravel member card, and attractive price reduction policies for use of services of Vietravel’s partners in different fields: fashion, health, shopping, entertainment, education…
In this summer, Vietravel is launching “Hello Summer 2013” promotion program titled as “Let’s get easy summer tour – win a stylish motorbike”, prize each week would be 01 Yamaha Nouvo GP motorbike and special prize at the end of the term would be 01 pair of Yamaha Nouvo GP motorbikes.
This program is held from May 20th to August 17th 2013.
Clients booking tours at Vietravel Phan Thiet will be allowed to join this promotion program with opportunity to win valuable prizes as well as receipt of attractive gifts.
Contact information:
PHAN THIET BRANCH
137 Tran Hung Dao street, Phu Thuy ward, Phan Thiet city, Binh Thuan province
Tel: (062) 3939 879 - 3939 889
