Hung King temple is confirmed as a special national monument in 2009.
This land is worship Hung Kings - the ancestors of Vietnam people and famous as a historical beautiful site.
Hung King temple area is a historical monument where includes: Ha temple, Thien Quang pagoda, Trung temple, Thuong Temple, Hung Vuong mausoleum, Well temple, Au Co Country Mother Temple, Lac Long Quan Country Father temple.
Passed years, this place is the center land of culture, spirit, belief of  Vietnam nation. Annually, in the spring, thousands Vietnamese people make pilgrimage to this land to burn incense as grateful to their ancestors:
Descendants of three regions visit ancestors tombs
The motherland shall be prosperous everlasting.
Annual spring, there are about 260 festivals of culture, spirit, and belief hold in this land such as: an ancestor's death anniversary of Hung Kings - Hung King temple festival, Au Co Country Mother temple festival, Van Luong casting-net throwing festival, Lang Suong Mother temple festival, Du Yen temple festival, Festival procession of Queen in Hung Son town, Hien Quan spread Festival, Tro Tram professional performance festival, Phu Ninh buffalo fighting festival, Ngoc Tan communal house festival, Boat contest in Bac Hac river port, Gongs festival and Duong stab festival of Muong ethnic group, and so on. Festivals in Phu Tho are original characters and original culture of this ancestral land.
Historical and cultural monuments is a unique tourism resource of Phu Tho province. Besides Hung King temple which is classified as special national monument, there are 73 historical monuments listed in the national monuments and 212 historical monuments listed in the provincial monuments, for example Hung Lo communal house, Pho Quang pagoda, Lang Suong temple, Lang Ca archaeological monument, Ren village archaeological monument, and so on where remain valuable architecture value and traditional arts of the nation.
What's beautiful nation!
What are palm tree forest, tee hill, and immense green vast fields!
Sun shine on Lo River and hearing a sing of heaven.
This land is complex terrain of low hills with fields, small delta through rivers. It creates this land with special and amazing beautiful sites as forest of palm trees, vast green tee hills as face down bowls, and covered with milk and curved rivers. You would see more than a hundred of small and medium islands in Ao Chau lagoon which covered with thick and rich plant and 99 small streams laid down in cross-valleys; you would also take pleasure with view of water and boats as a picture of Hac three-way cross rivers, and you would be calm down the quite air of Xuan Son national park with wind, cloud, and trees.
UNESCO just placed the worship of the Hùng Kings on its “List of the Intangible Cultural Heritage of Humanity". This worship is a long and tradition custom of the nation. It is known as a feature of culture. It shows the pious, grateful, and a philosophy of "Human get their ancestors" of the Nation.
For many years with many events, this belief is remained and plays as sacred spirit of Vietnamese people. It locates on each family, in social, and the strong and collected point of national solidarity.
Hat Xoan – an intangible World Cultural Heritage in need of urgent protection. It is known as pride of Vietnam in general and of Phu Tho in narrow.
Legend has it that Hat Xoan was created from Hung Kings and now it is preserved at four villages including: An Thai (Phuong Lau commune), Phu Duc, Kim Doi, and Thet (Kim Duc commune).
Annually, in the warmly air of spring, in temples of Hung Kings worship, Xoan villages holds Xoan singing competition in a fixed order: Manner singing (Greeting king, Giao trống, Giao pháo, Thơ nhang, and Đóng đám), Quả cách singing (singing 14 quả cách), and dual love song (Bỏ bộ, Hát đúm, Xin huê - word questions, Mó cá, and singing the finish).
There are special features of Hát Xoan from its dances, song words, historical value, and human culture value saved.
It will fill the gap of time and language for any tourist who comes Phu Tho and enjoy Hat Xoan.
Xuan Son Natural Park locates in Tan Son district. This place takes high valuation on its diversified ecological and rich biological with complex tectonics terrain.
This land is a special potential resource of tourism with national feature as system of ecological, waterfalls, and community of more than 30 limestone caves and caverns with its specifics: large underground river in huge cave, system of beautiful stalactites as the image of terraced fields.
Xuan Son National Park would attracts tourists with traditional festivals, custom, folksongs, and folk dance of Dao, Muong ethnic groups.
Xuan Son is known as Ha Long bay in the land. 43,791 ha of Xuan Son park is planed as tourism area with four functional sites including ecological and nature viewing site; urban area for tourism, culture, and trade; site of farms for semi wild animal feeding. So, tourists can find this land for culture, ecological, beauty site, discovery, venture sports, and scientific research, and so on
This tourism area is located in Thanh Thuy district, on the west bank of Da river, next to Hanoi city. Thanh Thuy mineral heat water area is connected with other regions in both road and water way for better tourism.
Mineral heat water gets average temperature from 370C to 540C and exploited from the artesian waters from underground from 30 meters to 60 meters far to surface. Mineral water in this land contains many useful minerals as sodium, potassium, calcium, magnesium. Especially, water in this land contains Radon  - A unique and valuable water in Vietnam and it is very good for bathing, curing, and recuperative.
When you come to Thanh Thuy, you can soak in natural mineral heat water pools with roof or open. You can both dip you feet on mineral water and please in natural fresh air.
Now, Thanh Thuy mineral heat water tourism area is a complex area with hotels, restaurants, services, so it meets well the demand of tourism, convalescence, health recover, and cure for both domestic and international tourists.
Hemibagrus:
is a genus of catfishes (order Siluriformes) of the family Bagridae. This genus consists of large-sized catfishes. It includes species with depressed (flattened) heads, rugose (ridged or wrinkled) head shields not covered by skin, and moderately long adipose fins, four antenna.
Hemibagrus live in the middle layer water and it is special food of Phu Tho province.
Doan Hung pomelo:
is a special food of Phu Tho province with trade mark "Doan Hung pomelo - Favour taste of Ancestral Land".
The features of this pomelo are small fruit, thin skin, small section, good sweet-taste.
When you make pilgrimage to the Ancestral Land, you should preserve this pomelo - it is the unique and essential taste of the midland.
Multi spurs chicken:
This kind of chicken are sourced for many years since the legend of Hung Kings who found son-in-law for Ngoc Hoa princess - "Betrothal gifts shall be elephant with nine tusks, chicken with nine spurs, horse with nine pink furs".
Meat of the chicken is tasted very well. It is favour present for holidays, Tet holidays, new house ceremony, adult ceremony in local people.
Now, this chicken is a special food for tourists who visit Xuan Son National Park.
