10 ideal places for travelling alone in Vietnam
Traveling alone is the pleasures and interests of many people.
It gives travelers experiences that group traveling cannot.
The resort city with the lovely scenery is an ideal place for those who love traveling alone.
In Dalat visitors can admire the lyrical scene here with lots of flowers, the tree-lined streets, quiet roads in the early morning.
Binh Ba Island
Binh Ba is an island of Cam Ranh City, Khanh Hoa province, which still retains the wild beauty with sunshine, blue sea, white sand.
Coming here, visitors can swim in the crystal blue water, dive to see coral reefs, observe the daily life of local fishermen and enjoy fresh and delicious seafood or go fishing at night.
All activities will give you a great experience and fun.
Hue
If you are looking for a peaceful place, Hue is the ideal choice.
Come to the ancient capital, you can wander around the city to see old buildings, ancient architectural works in the city, enjoy Hue royal court music and taste Hue royal cuisine.
Hoi An
This small, old old town, the world cultural heritage site, is always gentle and loved by Vietnamese and foreign tourists.
In Hoi An, you should wander alone on small roads, sit in a coffee shop to see the slow rhythm of local people, purchase some unique souvenirs, take a boat trip on the Hoai River and walk along the lantern streets at night.
Cham Islet in Quang Nam Province
Recognized as a world biosphere reserve by UNESCO, Cham Islet is a group of eight small islands: Hon Dai, Hon Mo, Hon Lao, Hon Kho Me, Hon Kho Con, Hon La, Hon Tai, and Hon Ong.
Nature has endowed it with green forests, wide beaches and an incredibly diverse ecosystem.
With a total area of 15.5 km2 and 3,000 inhabitants, Cham Islet is only 18 km from Hoi An city.
it has a marine ecosystem with 950 aquatic species, including many fish, and rare corals are almost intact.
Nha Trang in Khanh Hoa Province
Nha Trang offers a six-kilometre stretch of beautiful coastline with white sandy beaches, clear waters with an abundance of marine life and thriving reefs, verdant mountain ranges at each end, as well as 19 untouched islets that are just a short boat ride away.
Offering a myriad of sightseeing and recreational activities, the coastal town itself is steeped with breath-taking structures that date back to the Champa Kingdom, Buddhist temples, and gothic-style Catholic churches, as well as natural hot springs, salt fields, and unique waterfalls.
Catering to any budget level and preference, Nha Trang restaurants serve up fresh seafood and Vietnamese cuisine while lively bars and pubs along the pristine beach are favourite hangouts for tourists to watch the sun sets over the East Sea.
Ninh Thuan
Coming to Ninh Thuan, tourists are able to relax in Ca Na Tourist Site, swim in Ninh Chu Beach, Vinh Hy Bay, climb to Da Trang Mountain, and observe natural animals in Phan Rang Reservation, or visit Pi Nang Tac Stone Trap.
Being thevhome of Cham minority group, Ninh Thuan has characteristic culture of Ethnic Cham, which are shown in local customs, Cham dance, sculpture, pottery, and brocade and agriculture of Cham towers.
Famous towers name Po Klong Garai and Porome.
Phu Yen
Phu Yen province encompasses a diverse landscape of mountains, rivers, lagoons and fertile plains with nearly 200 kilometers of shoreline along Vietnam's curving south-central coast.
Lesser known than the beach resort town of Nha Trang, about 120 kilometers away to the south, Phu Yen is a place where visitors can still enjoy having a wide patch of golden sand to themselves.
The capital city Tuy Hoa offers a good base for exploring the beaches, bays and offshore islands up and down the coast, with an ancient tower (Nhan Cham) to see and a large seated Buddha on a hilltop just north of the city.
The nearby Vung Ro Bay features a deep-sea port and a forest reserve in its surrounding hills home to a number of rare and exotic plants and animals.
Life here is laid back, with all the attractions of a seaside fishing village to enjoy -- fabulous fresh seafood and relaxing on the sands under the tropical sun, plus excursions inland to walk up the gently sloped mountains for gaining a bird's eye view of this peaceful province.
Con Dao Island
Con Dao is one of the top destinations in Vietnam in sea and island tours.
Visiting the island, tourists have a chance to see beautiful seas, primitive forests, notorious prison cells, historic sites and culture.
The 76-square-kilometer Con Dao archipelago comprises 16 big and small islands.
The biggest island is Con Son, covering 51 square kilometers.
Some other prominent islands are Hon Ba, Hon Bay Canh, Hon Cau, Hon Bong Lan and Hon Vung.
These islands are home to some 6,000 friendly and hospitable people.
Con Dao is endowed with many long, beautiful beaches shaded by almond trees and clear, blue seawater.
It is a national park with diverse fauna and flora systems.
In the sea, there are a wide range of colorful fish and coral reefs.
Wild orchids, black squirrels, red-bowel squirrels and “gam gi” (a pigeon species) are abundant.
Con Dao is one of the few locations in Vietnam where dugongs, dolphins and sea turtles are preserved.
During the war, Con Dao Island was a prison where revolutionaries were jailed.
The Hang Duong martyrs’ cemetery is a place for commemorating heroes and heroines of national defense.
Con Dao Museum protects objects and photos featuring the island’s history.
Nowadays, these islands are a paradise for tourists to discover.
Exploring Ong Dung and So Ray primitive forests, going fishing on Bong Lan Islet, catching squid on Tau Be tip, snorkeling, diving by Tre Islet and watching turtles laying eggs at night on Bay Canh Islet can be unforgettable trips.
Can Tho
Known among Vietnamese as ‘Tay Do’, meaning the Capital of the West, Can Tho is a the largest city in the Mekong Delta.
While famous for its pastoral beauty ofcomplex waterway network and lush fruit orchards, Can Tho is also a buzzy city with sufficient facilities to accommodate and entertain visitors both domestic and abroad.
With an average temperature of 27 Celsius degree, Can Tho is an all-year-round travel destination.
The most famous places in the city are Cai Rang Floating Market, Bang Lang Stork Park, Binh Thuy French House, Nam Nha Pagoda and Tay Do Night Market.
13 exciting experiences in Hoi An
In addition to discovering the unique culture and landscapes of Hoi An, tourists can experience many exiciting things in this world cultural heritage site.
1. Walkalong the streets of Hoi An to see old houses, especially the houses on the main streets of Tran Phu, Nguyen Thi Minh Khai, Bach Dang, along the Hoai River...
2. Cycle to explore the old town in the early morning and evening.
You can rent a bike for VND40,000 (less than $2) a day.
3. Sit in coffee shop on the second floor to see the old roofs in Hoi An.
4. Enjoy sidewalk dishes.
5. Take a cyclo tour around the town.
6. Take pictures at old houses or famous tourist sites in Hoi An such as the wall in Hoang Van Thu Street, the Japanese bridge, the An Hoi Bridge, ...
7. Enjoy the world's most delicious Vietnamese Banh Mi (bread) in Hoi An.
The two most famous banh mi shops are Phuong in Phan Chu Trinh Street and Madam Khanh in Tran Cao Van Street.
8. Visit the lantern streets.
9. Take a boat trip and drop lanterns on the Hoai River at night.
10. Enjoy the sparkling town at night from the Hoai River.
11. Walk around the night market in the old town to enjoy traditional cuisines and purchase handicraft items.
12. Visit the Sa Huynh culture museum at 149 Tran Phu Street to learn more about the culture and history of the ancient town of Hoi An.
The museum displays more than 1,000 artifacts related to the people of Sa Huynh culture dating back to 2,000 years ago.
13.Listen to Bai Choi folk music.
Will cuisine or marine tourism be the core of Vietnam tourism?
Building marine tourism brand or selecting culinary art as the core values of the Vietnamese tourism is still a matter of controversy.
At a recent seminar on building the strategy on brand development for Vietnam's tourism to 2025, with the vision to 2030, many experts contributed ideas to improve the competitiveness of Vietnam's tourism in the integration period.
Tourism brands
According to Le Tuan Anh, Deputy Director of the International Cooperation Department, Vietnam National Administration of Tourism, an important factor to influence the attraction of tourists is not the symbol or slogan but the value of tourism brand.
Many countries around the world have made great progress in the number of tourists thanks to success in branding construction.
For instance, the UK with the brand “Great Britain” built in 2012, which helped this country reach a new record of foreign tourists, with 34.4 million in 2014.
Adjacent to Vietnam, Thailand is also a good example for the development of successful tourism brand "Land of Smiles" associated with the logo "Amazing Thailand".
From 19 million of foreign visitors in 2011, the number of tourists to Thailand grew to 33 million in 2015.
There are many other countries that their tourism brands have been shaped and disseminated worldwide.
To describe American tourism in short words, travelers would say “quality”, for Japanese tourism, it will be “respect, meticulous”, for Italy it will be “romantic”.
In Southeast Asia, referring to Indonesia, people will think of the country with thousands of islands and resorts, for Malaysia, it is famous for shopping tourism, and Cambodia with cultural heritage.
Building brand for Vietnam’s tourism
In the development strategy of Vietnam's tourism brand to 2025 and the vision to 2030, the national tourism brand is defined to be associated with four product lines: sea and islands, culture, nature and urban.
Le Quoc Vinh, General Director of LeBros Media Group, said once the brand is identified, it is important how to market it.
Vinh also pointed out common mistakes in marketing destination brands: it is marketing to all and the use of common, trite language.
"We often focus on promoting the features of the destinations and forget the core factor - emotion," Vinh said, adding that Vietnam’s tourism advertising videos only tried to show off all landscapes of the countries, without creating the highlight or a clear message.
Some travel experts said to successfully build destination branding, Vietnam must find a core value, which must be a unique value, which makes Vietnam different from other countries in the region.
Vinh suggested: "Philip Kotler, the world famous marketing expert said that Vietnam is the kitchen of the world.
Therefore, the cuisine is one of the values that we can use to promote national tourism image."
Building the road of cuisine is also one of the objectives in the strategy to build Vietnam’s tourism brand.
According to tourism experts, the representative image of Vietnam’s tourism include:
1. Ha Long Bay (75%)
2. Hanoi (67%)
3. Food (63%)
4. Hoi An (58%)
5. HCM City (58%)
6. Mekong Delta (54%)
7. Hue (46%)
8. Ao Dai (Vietnamese traditional gown) (33%)
9. Sapa (29%)
10 Nha Trang (29%)
Cuisine of the Nung
The Nung live at higher elevations and have a tradition of self-sufficiency.
The Nung live close to nature and eat whatever they can grow or gather in the forest.
Some of their dishes have become specialties of Lang Son’s tourism.
The Nung grow both regular rice and glutinous rice.
Steamed rice is the main food in the daily meal, which also includes wild vegetables and beans.
In the summer they often have porridge for lunch.
The Nung prefer to fry vegetables and roots rather than boil them.
After frying, they may add water to make soup.
Nung cuisine is well represented by their typical New Year feast, which is considered a meal to counteract risks.
The year-end party of the Nung Phan Sinh in Lang Son province includes many dishes made from different kinds of meat, bamboo shoots, and vegetables.
Luong Van Bach, a Nung man who lives in Lang Son, said: “The Nung Phan Sinh in Lang Son have upheld their traditional New Year celebration.
They prepare various dishes that include duck.
They believe eating duck will banish bad luck and they will enjoy a lucky New Year.”
Duck is part of several different dishes. The most popular dish is duck with sour bamboo shoots.
Khau nhuc is a kind of braised pork belly seasoned with several kinds of herbs, such as cinnamon, anise, pepper, chili, and basil.
Khau nhuc is always served to guests and at parties for weddings, funerals, and longevity celebrations.
Seasoned with leaves of “mac mat”, a local sweet and aromatic plant, roasted duck and pork are two other popular dishes of the Nung and other ethnic groups in Lang Son, Cao Bang, and Bac Can province.
Nong Van Chi of Lang Son said: “Mac mat leaves are indispensable with roasted pork and duck.
The leaves are aromatic.
We also stuff “mac mat” fruit inside a suckling pig to bring out its flavor.”
Rice wine is always part of a festival, wedding, funeral, or birthday party.
The Tay, Nung, and Thai groups in northern provinces drink wine with their arms intertwined to show they will remain close to each other forever.
Over the years, Nung culture and cuisine have become tourism trademarks of Lang Son province.
The most primitive beaches in Vietnam
If you want to explore virgin beaches in Vietnam, visit the following 13 beaches and you will not regret the choice.
1. Tu Nham beach: Tu Nham beach is located in Xuan Thinh commune, Song Cau district in the central province of Phu Yen.
The 8km long beach is like a bow-shape.
2. Bai Mon beach: Bai Mon is located in Dong Be village, Hoa Tam commune, Dong Hoa district, also in Phu Yen province. The beach is only 500m in length, but it is recognized as a national landscape.
The beach is very near the Dai Lanh lighthouse, with fantastic range of mountains.
This is an ideal place for camping.
3. Ky Co beach: Ky Co beach is at the foot of Phuong Mai Mountain in Nhon Ly peninsula of Quy Nhon city, Binh Dinh province.
The beach has poetic and magnificent beauty with crystal blue water.
4. Ly Son island: Ly Son is an island district in the central province of Quang Ngai.
The island is approximately 9.97sq.km in area.
This is a volcanic island in the East Sea.
5. Hon Nua island: Located on the boundary between Khanh Hoa and Phu Yen, Hon Nua is a dinosaur shaped island. The beach is small but it beautiful.
6. Cu Lao Cau: Cu Lao Cau or Hon Cau is an island in Tuy Phong district of, Binh Thuan province.
There are many pretty rock cliffs on the island.
7. Lang Van beach: Lang Van is one of those hidden gems near Da Nang city, which is very near Hai Van Pass and Lang Co.
8. Mui Dinh beach: Mui Dinh beach is located in Son Hai village, Phuong Dinh commune, Thuan Nam district of Ninh Thuan province.
Mui Dinh beach has Mui Dinh lighthouse which is often a place to avoid storm of boats.
9. Ganh Son Island: Situated in Chi Cong commune, Tuy Phong district, Binh Thuan province, Gianh Son island has mountains with different shapes and different colors.
The red color of rock, blue color of sea water seem to harmonizeto make a surreal beauty
10. Phu Quy Island: Phu Quy Island is located about 120km from Phan Thiet City, Binh Thuan Province.
Covering over 17sq.km with great potential, the island is considered the political, economic and cultural centre of the island district of Phu Quy.
Seen from the sea from different directions, the island looks like a floating city with interesting shapes, such as a dragon, a codfish or a giant whale swimming in the deep blue ocean.
11. Tho Chu island: Tho Chu, an archipelago with eight islands, is a commune of Phu Quoc District, which is in turn an island off Kien Giang Province.
The archipelago, however, has not been frequented by tourists despite its wild and natural beauties.
To reach Tho Chu, visitors have to take a 16-hour boat trip which departs every five days.
The boat stops at Phu Quoc Island for one night.
12. Hon Bay Canh beach: As the 2nd largest island in the Con Dao islands, Hon Bay Canh is the home to fascinating beaches and rich flora and fauna system.
13.Cay Men beach: Cay Men beach locates in Nam Du island, Kien Giang province with pretty old coconuts.
Men beach’s coconut forest is nearly 100 years old which Nora's seen many happy and sad memories of southwestern island…
Coconuts in Men Beach gives visitors an exciting feeling: Cool, sweet, fresh like the air at this place.
These big coconuts have their own name: Dua Chi. This kind of coconut is only planted in some localities in the south but in Nam Du and especially in Men Beach the coconut is sweeter, fresher and cooler.
Blue sea, white sand and yellow sun in Men Beach is very beautiful.
Gentle beaches stretching hundreds of meters away help children free to play.
Taking a dip in clear water and enjoying coconut will be an exciting experience for tourists.
Banh com – a fine treat of Hanoi
Hanoi is famous for its speciality green rice flake cakes which are sold in Hang Than street.
Hang Than is just among more than 20 culinary streets in Hanoi which has about 70 streets with their first name of Hang.
This 300 metre long street houses more than 30 green rice flake cake shops.
The Nguyen Ninh trademark is the oldest and most popular brand for green rice flake cake.
The name was established in 1865 by late Tran Thi Luan and adopted it’s current name of Nguyen Ninh in 1928.
There have been 5 generations of Nguyen Ninh making green rice flake cake so far, said Nguyen Thi Hiep, a fourth generation family member.
As explained, Nguyen means origin, Ninh is called after Yen Ninh village which is now Yen Ninh street, near Hang Than.
Therefore, Nguyen Ninh green rice flake cake means the cake originated from Yen Ninh village.
Nguyen Ninh’s secret of making the cake is its pure ingredients without additives and mixture.
Green rice flake cake is made of green rice flakes, green peas and sugar.
Green rice flakes must be from Vong and Lu villages (in the past) or from rice land of Thai Binh (at present) and green peas are carefully selected in Ha Tay province.
As tasting a green rice flake cake, especially made by Nguyen Ninh, one can experience the full flavour of simple villages, a very different and typical Hanoi speciality.
The Nung hamlets in Chi Lang, Lang Son
Tourists visiting the northern province of Lang Son are greatly impressed by the peaceful hamlets of the Nung dotting the valleys, hillsides, and river banks.
To Tuan introduces a Nung hamlet in Chi Lang commune. A Nung hamlet in Chi Lang district, Lang Son province
Chi Lang district, which is about 120 km northeast of Hanoi, covers dangerous terrain in a hard-to-access part of Lang Son province.
The Nung are the majority residents in all 19 communes of Chi Lang district.
Trieu Thuy Tien, an official working in Lang Son’s culture sector, says that, like the Nung in other localities, the Nung in Chi Lang have maintained their traditions and customs: “The Nung clans cluster in hamlets.
They share with the Kinh people a tendency to treasure their neighbors above distant relatives.
Relatives living far away are not as valuable as good people living next door who will give us whatever we ask for.
It shows a sense of mutual support in a close-knit community.”
The Nung prefer to live at high elevations.
On national highway 1A, we see a road sign that reads “Ai Chi Lang”, where we turn into a rough road that climbs up the mountain to the Nung area. 40 km later we arrive at Co Hương, Thằm Nà, and Suối Mạ hamlet, about 1,200 to 1,300 meters above sea level.
Our effort is rewarded with beautiful vistas of vast meadows where herds of goats and horses are grazing.
The Nung are often praised for their openness and warm welcome for strangers. Their lifestyle and cooking also make a good impression on visitors.
In recent years, besides their tradition of raising cattle, the Nung have grown cash crops and fruit trees.
In the 1980s some households piloted growing custard-apple trees.
Now it has become the main fruit tree which brings them a stable income.
Triệu Thị Nhất, a Nung woman in Chi Lăng commune, says: “My family grows rice, custard-apples, and raises cattle.
Our income comes mainly from growing custard-apples.
We can afford to build a new house and buy some home comforts.”
Social changes have affected the Nung community.
There are many new brick houses replacing earthen stilt houses.
One thing that has not changed is their tradition of unity and mutual support to escape poverty and become better-off.
What is Vietnam's tourism identity?
To describe American tourism in short words, travelers would say “quality”, for Japanese tourism, it will be “respect, meticulous”, for Italy it will be “longing, romantic and luxury”.
What words could be used to describe Vietnam’s tourism?
This was the question of Mr.Le Tuan Anh, Deputy Director of the International Cooperation Department of the Vietnam National Administration of Tourism (VNAT) at a seminar held at the Hanoi International Tourism Fair 2016.
"Vietnam’s tourism has never been able to touch the human heart like Thailand," said Le Quoc Vinh, CEO of Le Bros media group.
Citing a clip advertising Thai tourism in the modern style, entitled ihatethailand (I hate Thailand), which attracted millions of views on the social network, Vinh said that it is important to "find the brand soul" rather than just focusing on developing the brand reputation and brand communication.
Vietnam’s tourism promotional activities have only advertised landscapes while ignoring the core, the highest element of the brand – emotion, Vinh said.
In the strategic project on development of tourism products of Vietnam to 2025 and the vision to 2030, the logo and slogan of Vietnam’s tourism remained unchanged.
"The matter is not in the logo or the slogan because they do not create the value.
We have to convey the brand's values," said Le Tuan Anh.
"Eco-tourism is developed everywhere, but visitors do not think it is eco-tourism.
This affects the image of Vietnam’s tourism," said Ms. Do Thi Thanh Hoa, Deputy Director of the Institute of Tourism Development.
Vietnam's tourism brand to 2020, according to Hoa, must be marine and island tourism.
The subject of the Hanoi International Tourism Fair 2016 is also "Vietnam, the paradise of marine and island tourism".
"Compared with other countries with marine brand in the region, Vietnam still has many advantages thanks to the system of beautiful beaches, crystal sea water and smooth sand," said Hoa.
Nevertheless, representatives of some travel firms said all coastal provinces wanted to develop marine tourism but many beaches were still flooded by rubbish.
City tourism in Vietnam is not mentioned much, because Vietnam cannot compete with Malaysia, Singapore, and Indonesia, with big cities and developed shopping tourism.
However, this is still seen as one of four typical products of the country's tourism in the future.
"The most important factor is the nuance, which makes Hanoi, Ho Chi Minh City, and Da Nang always the top three most attractive cities to foreign visitors in Vietnam," said Le Tuan Anh.
Many suggested that international visitors highly appreciate the culture, cuisine, friendly people, and daily life experience in Vietnam.
Street food of Vietnam like pho (noodles), nem ran (spring rolls), and banh mi have become famous worldwide.
Many world leading travel magazines also praised Vietnam’s food, even used the word "superpower".
Madame Ton Nu Thi Ninh once said "it is very bad if we do not promote Vietnam cuisine."
Colin Pine, CEO of Ho Tram Resort, a member of the Tourism Advisory Council, said it was necessary to research and clarify further the tourism brand of Vietnam.
"Vietnam has many special things.
The difference in climate and culture of the three regions is also an advantage to attract foreign travellers.
I personally have lived in Vietnam for more than 20 years because of the friendly people," he said.
Can Gio Tourism- an ideal destination for a weekend in Saigon
Can Gio ecotourism is about 50 km from Ho Chi Minh city center to the southeast.
This is a favorite place of many tourists on weekends.
Coming to Can Gio, you will leave the noise and hustle of a busy city behind and enjoy a wonderful restful space in quiet and peaceful nature.
Road and transportation guidance to Can Gio
Because the distance from the city center to Can Gio is not too far, so you can choose two popular means of transportation as public bus and motorbike.
Public Bus
Start at Ben Thanh market, catch bus number 20 to Nha Be and stop at Binh Khanh ferry.
Then, catch bus number 90 straight to the beach.
In addition, you can take bus number 75, depart from 23/9 park and stop at Can Thanh station.
This bus schedule goes cross some familiar tourism places in Can Gio.
Motorbike
From Ho Chi Minh city, ride to Tan Thuan bridge (district 7), then turn to Nguyen Van Linh road, straight to Huynh Tan Phat street is Binh Khanh ferry.
You have to buy ticket to use the ferry.
Although the way to Can Gio is quite pretty nice, some parts have many cobble stones and not flat, so you need to prepare needed equipment in case your vehicle is out of order.
It is quite hard to find a repair shop along the road.
In particular, you must comply with traffic rules to avoid troubles on the road.
Discovering Vam Sat mangrove forest
The Vam Sat mangrove forest is located in the World Biosphere Reserve with the abundant flora and fauna.
You can explore famous attractions like Bat Pond, Crocodile Farm, etc. to enjoy exciting recreational activities: fishing, crab fishing, bird watching, crocodile fishing, boating, fishing nets, etc.
If you want to relax among untouched and quiet fields, you are able to sit on a motor boat going through green and fresh channels.
The 7 natural wonders of Phu Yen
Mossy beaches, slender wooden bridges and countless ponds and streams in the coastal province of Phu Yen have been sights to behold since forever.
Phu Yen sits 561 kilometers to the north of Saigon, right above the famous Khanh Hoa Province that gave us the fabulous Nha Trang and its beaches.
Its seaside location offers a beauty that rivals fantasy film sets, and its low-profile status keeps it safe from the forces of mass tourism that have saturated many attractions.
Hybrid cohabitation between moss and sea defenses.
Moss, one of the most trustworthy indicators of time, finds perfect harmony covering the concrete embankments by the sea in Phu Yen.
The lake is home to a famous seafood specialty: the blood cockle, a shellfish that oozes a blood-like liquid even when boiled.
Be it in rice soup or slightly boiled, order yourselves some and embark on a fishing boat for a tour of the lake to snap some pictures to take home.
The sights here are akin to the scenes found in the adventures of Sinbad or the great Jason and his Argonauts.
Streams, grass, sand and sea, all in close proximity.
Home to the first book written in modern Vietnamese by the man who 'converted' the country to the Roman alphabet, missionary Alexandre de Rhodes.
Appropriately, "Catechismus” was printed in 1651 in Rome, Italy.
The church was named after an extinct flower that only exists today in stories told by the elderly.
Ghenh Da Dia is Vietnam's smaller version of Ireland's Giant's Causeway with hundreds of columns and plates rising up like a staircase.
It’s nearly impossible for visitors to find a place for pictures void of the sea of humans that crowd it.
The symmetry of this manmade construction creates a comforting curtain of water.
Said to be the longest of its kind in Vietnam at 700 meters, from afar the bridge belies the weight it can carry.
La Vong fish - a favourite dish of Hanoian
The food is supposed to have been created by the Doan family.
According to Ngo Thi Tinh, a descendant of the 4th generation of the family, the family started the business of selling "cha ca" to earn money to support the family members and to have a meeting place for the Vietnamese people who wanted to fight against French colonialism.
The family food became a speciality of Hanoian people.
The grilled fish must be made from a kind of fresh water fish called hemibagrus because it has very few bones and the flesh is very tasty.
If hemibagrus is not available, we could make do with mudfish or snake-head fish.
Some connoiseurs may request for a special kind of fish called Anh Vu, which is available only in Viet Tri city at the turning point of the Bach Hac River.
Thin slices of Anh Vu fish are rolled with a kind of herb called "soi" then grilled to give an excellent flavour.
To make grilled fish, thin slices of fish have to be mixed with ginger, saffron, fermented cold rice, pepper and fish sauce; then placed on bamboo skewers and grilled on a burning charcoal stove right on the dinning tables.
Cham Island to launch sea walking tour
Quang Nam provincial People’s Committee has allowed Cham Island Tourist Company Limited to launch a new and fascinating tour to explore the undersea world: walking tour under the sea.
Accordingly, visitors taking part in this tour will have to wear a special helmet with oxygen supply and follow a tour guide.
During a walking tour under the sea within 15 to 20 meters on the seabed, visitors have a fascinating experience when watching the corals and other sea creatures.
As scheduled, the tour will open to public on May 1.
Located 15 kilometres east of Cua Dai Beach in Hoi An city, Cu Lao Cham consists of eight islets and a UNESCO-recognised Biosphere Reserve.
Nearly 2,550 islanders live in four villages and make their living by aquatic farming and tourism.
The island welcomes over 50,000 tourist arrivals every year.
8 interesting facts about Da Lat
Da Lat is not only a renowned tourist-resort city of Vietnam but also famous for unusual and interesting sites.
1. Linh Phuoc – the Buddhist temple of records
Linh Phuoc, located at 120 Trai Mat, Da Lat, is one of the most well-known pagodas in Vietnam with a 37-metre bell tower – the tallest in the country.
The main hall consists of colorful paintings regarding the story of Buddha from his birth until he obtained Nirvana and his death.
Linh Phuoc Pagoda, also called Ve Chai Pagoda, was built from debris of glass, pottery bowls and porcelain between 1949 and 1952 in a remote residential area of Da Lat City.
The pagoda is led by many Buddhist monks and was renovated by Monk Thich Tam Vi in 1990.
The pagoda has been managed by 4 Buddhist monks, including Mr.Thich Minh The (1951 – 1954), Mr.Thich An Hoa (1954 – 1956), Mr.Thich Quang Phat (1956 – 1959) and Mr.Thich Minh Duc (1959 – 1985).
Since 1985, Mr.Thich Tam Vi has managed the pagoda including a big restoration in 1990.
The remarkable feature of the pagoda is the Dragon - shaped design made from the broken pieces of glasses in accordance to the design of Khai Dinh's Tomb in Hue. In the main temple, there is a statue of Shakyamuni Buddhist with the height of 4.9m, sitting under the root of Bodhi tree.
Beside the pagoda, we can see a 49m Dragon flying around the garden.
In front of the sanctum, there is Da Bao tower with 27m height.
On two sides of the tower, bell and drum are put.
In the tower, there are some statues of Quan The Am Bodhisattva.
On the right of the tower, they arrange place for worshipping, houses for monks staying and flower garden.
It has Van Thu gate and Long Hoa garden on the left, also pool, bonsai and 49m dragon.
The scabs of dragon are made from 12,000 empty bottles. The head of dragon is 7m high.
The pagoda has a 36- meter tower in the yard which contains a 8,500 - kilo bell in it.
The bell is 4.38m high and its diameter is 2.34m.
It is carved with 4 words "Linh Phuoc Tu Chung" and many statues, pagodas and patterns such as One Pillar Pagoda (Hanoi), Thien Mu pagoda (Hue), Bodh Gaya tower (India), etc.
Linh Phuoc pagoda is in the Vietnam Record Book with 11 records: the pagoda with the highest bell tower in Vietnam, the pagoda made from the large volume of terra-cotta pieces, pagoda with the largest sao timber-made peacock statue, pagoda with the largest indoor concrete-made Avalokitesvara Bodhisattva statue and others.
2. The nuclear reactor
This is the only nuclear reactor in Indochina, which is located at No.1 Nguyen Tu Luc, Da Lat city.
According to the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA), the Da Lat nuclear reactor has small capacity (500kW) but it works safely and at high economic efficiency.
The Da Lat Nuclear Reactor, formerly known as TRIGA Mark II reactor, was built in 1963 with the authorized maximum operation power level of 250kWt, but it ceased operation from 1968 to 1975.
With support from the former Soviet Union, Vietnam began to restore and expand the reactor in February 1982 and officially resumed operation on March 20, 1984, allowing a peak pulse power of 500 kWt.
Da Lat is expected to build a new 15MWt reactor in the future.
3. Da Quy (wild sunflower) Theatre
This is a special architectural work of Da Lat, which is located at the Lam Vien Da Lat Square.
4. Crazy House
Covering an area of approximately 1,600 square meters, Hang Nga Guest House, also known as “Crazy House”, is design by Vietnamese architect Dang Viet Nga.
As the intention of the architect is to make a fairy tale house, the “crazy house” resembles a tree with uneven windows, and tunnel-shaped stairways.
Both the exterior and the interior of the guesthouse are created and decorated with twisting organic forms and very few right angles.
The hollow “tree” extends in many directions, rising above to reach the sky of the amazing Da Lat.
Walking along the cave-shape hallways inside the house is not simply a visit but an exhilarating experience-a departure from the norm, wild mushrooms and spider webs popping up on your way is not unusual.
The guesthouse is a spectacular construction with ten themed guest rooms such as the tiger room, the eagle room, the ant room and the kangaroo room with decorations and handcrafted furniture matching the theme.
The guest house is famous among international tourists.
5. Da Lat clay sculpture tunnel
A kilometer long path snaking through a red basaltic soil hill with sculptures carved out of its sides is set to become a popular tourist attraction in Da Lat.
Located near the famous Tuyen Lam Lake, the path embodies the vision of its founder Trinh Ba Dung to tell the history of the city in a uniquely creative way.
Sculptures on the walls of the path purport to tell the story of Da Lat from more than 100 years ago, when the area was wild and teeming with wildlife, when it was sparsely inhabited by the Co Ho ethnic minority.
Various Co Ho myths including the fleeing of the father tortoise and his children while the mother tortoise fights a huge snake are etched into the wall.
The story indicates that the Co Ho were a matriarchal society.
The French colonial days are indicated with sculptures of landmark buildings like the Da Lat College, Da Lat Railway Station, Pasteur Institute and old villas by the Xuan Huong Lake.
The highest sculpture on the walls is 12m tall.
Work on this complex began in 2010 and more than 100 artisans were on the site during its busiest times.
The first work was a 90sq.m house made of soil, furnished with beds, chairs, tables, wardrobes, washing basins and chimneys, which are all made of soil.
The house stands against a mountain and faces the lake.
There is a map of Vietnam on its roof.
The house was recognized as "The First and the Most Unique House Made of Basaltic Soil without Baking" by the Vietnam Record Book Centre in 2013.
The complex won a Green Architecture Award from the Vietnam Architects Association in 2014.
6. The only white flamboyant tree in Vietnam
Da Lat is the home to Vietnam’s only one white flamboyant tree (White Jacaranda).
The tree was brought to Vietnam by Dr.Ha Ngoc Mai in 1998.
The tree is planted in the villa at No.75Phu Dong Thien Vuong Street, Da Lat.
Dr. Mai brought this tree to Vietnam in 1998 from Sydney, Australia.
At that time, an Asian worker at a nursery in Sydney introduced Mai to a violet flamboyant grafted with a mutated white flamboyant tree.
The price for this violet-white tree was $25.
Three years later, the tree began blossoming bunches of white flowers.
The first bunches of white flamboyant yielded several fruits and Dr.Mai cultivated over 50 seedlings from these fruits.
However, they produced violet flowers, not white.
7. Circle Hostel
The Circle Hostel is a hotel in Da Lat that provides guests with the option to spend the night in a tube.
For only VND200,000 ($9) per person, you can have one of ten pipe-shaped ‘rooms’ and one of the more unique accommodation experiences in Vietnam.
The Circle Hostel is built with a unique style using the round tubular construction of the room and decorated with different colors.
The hotel is located between a pine forest, and you can look down the valley and hill.
The hotel is very close to the city center: 5 minutes by motorbike to Da Lat Market, 3 minutes of intercity bus station Phuong Trang/cable car, 15 minutes down the Tuyen Lam Lake tourist area…
The hotel has 10 round tubular colorful and unique rooms.
The rental is reasonable, $10/night/one person, $12.5/night for 2 persons, $15/night for three persons. The rooms have the same area, including a small bed with mattress and drawers… In addition to the unique shape, the rooms are decorated with different colors, and are cheerful, youthful, with lively layout.
Due to the special design, tube-shaped rooms have not much space to put the toilet inside so there is a separate toilet and bathroom outside, which is very close to the rooms.
With the advantage of a beautiful location, situated on a small hill, quite wide and beautiful views from their rooms, visitors can see the pine forest, residential or garden terraces, garden fruit of households … 
On the high hill in early morning and evening you can see smog covering the whole valley below.
At night is the best time to have a campfire, gather with friends or relatives, while watching the city lights up.
You can also enjoy coffee, artichokes, free tea, books and sightseeing or bonfire, BBQ with friends ….
Mong Mo Hill in the resort city of Da Lat, Lam Dong province, is the home to the strangest animals in Vietnam, such as five-horn buffalo, five-leg pig, four-wing duck, etc.
These animals are collected throughout the country.
Untouched island hides pristine treasures off central coast
Only 27 kilometers north of Tuy Hoa city in Phu Yen, ‘Mai nha' (Roof) Island has somehow managed to preserve its wild and rugged beauty.
- VnExpress International
Often compared to Robinson Crusoe’s island, Roof Island is in An Hai Commune, Tuy An District, Phu Yen Province.
Situated not far from the mainland, the island is a go-to place thanks to the lack of tourists.
The ideal time for a trip to Roof Island is from March to August when there is no extreme weather.
It takes only 20 minutes by boat to reach the island and costs only VND500,000 ($23) for a round-trip ticket.
The best place to embark from is An Hai Dock, which saves you time and money.
Pristine beauty, a scarcity of people and tree-covered mountains.
There are no regular services available on the island.
It is not hooked up to the power grid, hostels are a luxury and fresh water is a treat.
This lack of essentials offers tourists a chance to improvise.
Remember to prepare tents and food if you plan to spend the night here.
A makeshift stove made right on the beach.
At the very heart of the island, there are just a few houses.
Crystal clear water and the rocky shore combine to make a stunning scene.
Homestay service in Da Lat
To make a trip to the Central Highlands city of Dalat more interesting, tourists can consider choosing a homestay or hostel room, instead of a luxury hotel one in town.
For a two-day trip to Dalat at weekend, tourists can stay at The Circle Vietnam Hostel on Dang Thai Than Street, around three kilometers from the city’s downtown.
At a cost of VND200,000 per person per night, the hostel attracts tourists by its colorful tubes where customers stay.
Inside each circle room is a bed for two people and a toilet.
The area at the yard in front of those rooms is for cooking and other community activities.
There, tourists can cook food or gather in groups for chatting and singing.
Another feature of The Circle Vietnam Hostel is the beautiful natural landscape with green valleys, hills of pine trees and villas hidden behind the mist.
For another homestay option in Dalat, tourists can go to La Nha Homestay on Hoang Dieu Street.
The space of La Nha gives guests a nostalgic feeling with old tables, chairs, wardrobes, and black and white TVs.
Almost all items used for decoration are secondhand flower vases, pieces of glass, umbrellas, doors but each room is equipped with modern furniture such as air-conditioners and water heaters.
La Nha has some shared rooms with single beds and tents put around its yard.
La Nha also has an area for people to get together for cooking or warming up.
6 Reasons Why Solo Travel Is So Addictive
Find out why traveling solo is seriously addictive, and no, it isn't just the lower costs when it's all said and done.
The first time you travel solo can be a nerve-wracking experience.
Possibly, for the first time in your life, you only have yourself to rely on.
There’s the little experiences, like not having anyone to look after your bag when you go to the airport bathroom.
Then, there’s the big ones, like finding yourself stranded with nowhere to sleep at midnight, because you’ve been locked out of your hostel.
So why exactly is this so addictive?
Quite simply, because there’s something totally unbeatable about conquering challenges on your own.
About living by the seat of your pants, choosing your own adventures, rules and schedules and being solely accountable for everything that happens.
And that, as all solo travelers know, is the true meaning of freedom.
1. You’ll Learn How To Lead
You’re the director, producer and actor in the movie that is your life, but, in the chaos of everyday moments, this can be hard to remember.
The second you embark on solo travel, you understand the true meaning of being entirely responsible for yourself.
You’re in charge of every decision and there’s nothing more empowering than discovering how capable you are.
2. You’ll Abandon Your Comfort Zones
Traveling solo is always an expansive experience, as it shatters pre-conceived concepts of the world with each step you take into the unknown.
New doors open up at every stop, in a way that’s not always visible when you’re occupied with travel companions.
You’re more inclined to talk to strangers and you’ll notice more people will want to connect with you.
Left to your own devices, you’ll try things you’ve never even considered and your ‘comfort zones’ will soon be a thing of the past.
3. You’ll Get To Reinvent Yourself
At home, you might be the shy one in your group of friends, the one who picks up everyone’s slack, the gardener, the computer whiz or the serious academic.
When you travel solo, no one knows, or cares, about the labels attached to you.
You can become an adventurer, a photographer, a farmer, a diver.
Whatever appeals to you, just take your pick!
You’ll discover things about yourself that haven’t had the space to appear in your busy home life.
The freedom to reinvent yourself and grow, without any input from people you know or past experiences, is seriously addictive in the best possible way.
4. You’ll Learn To Live In The Present Moment
There’s nothing like gazing at an awe-inspiring, foreign landscape on your own and knowing you only have a few, precious moments to soak it in.
You can’t take the landscape home with you and you might not ever return.
Without your friend next to you, chatting your ear off, you become totally immersed in the present moment.
It’s just you and the earth.
Travelling solo gives you the space to truly appreciate each moment, through your eyes alone.
5. You’ll Learn How To Spot Trouble From A Distance
A more attuned ‘trouble radar’ seems to exist for those of us who love to travel on our own.
You have to be more careful about your belongings, about heading out at night and about trusting people.
Because of this, you develop the ability to spot trouble from a distance, before it enters your world.
This is an invaluable skill for future travels and one that’s carried over into your life in general.
6. You’ll Discover What’s Important In Life
“To awaken quite alone in a strange town is one of the pleasantest sensations in the world.” – Freya
You can forget about expectations and even aspirations that take you away from living life, right now, into a future projection of it.
You can enjoy the simple pleasures of savoring exotic food for as long as you want, basking in the curious smile of a local child and letting your mind run free towards the next destination.
When you return home, all those ‘big’ issues will have faded into oblivion under an avalanche of freedom and aliveness.
You’ll view the world with fresh, empowered eyes.
And that’s the ultimate addiction.
Vietnamese spent $6 billion on overseas tours last year
Favorite destinations included Thailand, Cambodia, Japan and South Korea while local attractions became less appealing
Around six million Vietnamese traveled abroad for holiday last year and spent roughly US$6 billion, according to the Vietnam Tourism Association.
That was significant up from $3.5 billion in 2012, the association said, as cited by local media.
According to tour operators, favorite destinations included Thailand, Cambodia, Japan, South Korea, Europe and the US.
Vietnam’s top tourist companies such as Vietravel and Saigontourist said overseas tours have grown faster than domestic tours.
Vietnam itself is home to many famous destinations, including Ha Long Bay, the Phong Nha-Ke Bang National Park and Hoi An ancient town, all of which are UNESCO heritage sites.
But poor service quality, high prices and lack of creativity are among the main reasons that local tourists prefer going abroad, experts say.
Meanwhile, many foreign countries such as Japan and South Korea have simplified visa procedures for Vietnamese tourists and offered very competitive tour prices in recent years, they say.
White mountain, Green tourism
The French Alpine town of Chamonix has been a magnet for tourists since the 18th century.
But, today, tourism and climate change are putting pressure on the surrounding environment.
Marc Grainger reports.
The town of Chamonix- Mont-blanc sits in valley at 1,035 metres above sea level in the Haute-Savoie department in south-eastern France.
To the north- west are the red peaks of the Aiguilles Rouges massif; to the south-east are the permanently white peaks of Mont Blanc which at 4,810 metres is the highest mountain in the Alps.
It's a typical Alpine environment, but one that is under increasing strain from the hustle and bustle of human activity
Tourism is Chamonix's lifeblood.
Visitors have been encouraged to visit the valley ever since it was discovered by explorers in 1741.
Over 40 years later, in 1786, Mont Blanc's summit was finally reached by a French doctor and his guide, and this gave birth to the sport of alpinism, with Chamonix at its centre.
In 1924, it hosted the first Winter Olympics, and the cable cars and lifts that were built in the years that followed gave everyone access to the ski slopes.
Today, Chamonix is a modern town, connected to the outside world via the Mont Blanc Road Tunnel and a busy highway network.
It receives up to 60,000 visitors at a time during the silk season, and climbers, hikers and extreme- sports enthusiasts swarm there in the summer in even greater numbers, swelling the town's population to 100,000.
It is the third most visited natural site in the world, according to Chamonix's Tourism Office and, last year, it had 5,2 million visitor bed nights- all this in a town with fewer than 10,000 permanent inhabitants.
The influx of tourists has put the local environment under severe pressure, and the authorities in the valley have decided to take action.
Educating visitors is vital.
Tourists are warned not to drop rubbish, and there are now recycling points dotted all around the valley, from the town centre to halfway up the mountains.
An internet blog reports environmental news in the town, and the “green" message is delivered with all the tourist office's activities.
Low-carbon initiatives are also important for the region.
France is committed to reducing its carbon emissions by a factor of four by 2050.
Central to achieving this aim is a strategy that encourages communities to identify their carbon emissions on a local level and make plans to reduce them.
Studies have identified that accommodation accounts for half of all carbon emissions in the Chamonix valley.
Hotels are known to be inefficient operations, but those around Chamonix are now cleaning up their act.
Some are using low-energy lighting, restricting water use and making recycling bins available for guests; others have invested in huge projects such as furnishing and decorating using locally sourced materials, using geothermal energy for heating and installing solar panels.
Chamonix’s council is encouraging the use of renewable energy in private properties too, by making funds available for green renovations and new constructions.
At the same time, public-sector buildings have also undergone improvements to make them more energy efficient and less wasteful.
For example, the local ice rink has reduced its annual water consumption from 140,000 cubic metres to 10,000 cubic metres in the space of three years.
Improving public transport is another feature of the new policy, as 80 percent of carbon emissions from transport used to come from private vehicles.
While the Mont Blanc Express is an ideal way to travel within the valley- and see some incredible scenery along the route- it is much more difficult to arrive in Chamonix from outside by rail.
There is no direct line from the closest airport in Geneva, so tourists arriving by air normally transfer by car or bus.
However, at a cost of 3.3 million euros year, Chamonix has introduced a free shuttle service in order to get people out of their cars and into buses fitted with particle filters.
If the valley’s visitors and residents want to know why they need to reduce their environmental impact, they just have to look up; the effects of climate change are there for everyone to see in the melting glaciers that cling to the mountains.
The fragility of the Alpine environment has long been a concern among local people.
Today, 70 percent of the 805 square kilometres that comprise Chamonix- Mont-Blanc is protected in some way.
But now, the impact of tourism has led the authorities to recognize that more must be done if the valley is to remain prosperous: that they must not only project the natural environment better, but also manage the numbers of visitors better, so that its residents can happily remain there.
Northern flavors cure homesickness in Saigon
People from Hanoi and Saigon recognize each other as compatriots and share almost everything from their language to their customs, and most certainly their food, despite the 3,000 kilometers that separates them.
Having been in Saigon for more than 20 years, the kiosks at the end of Chu Manh Trinh (District 1), Tran Quoc Toan, Vo Thi Sau and Nguyen Thong Street (District 3) have almost every northern specialty for sale.
Food such as dried bamboo shoots, fragrant mushrooms, arrowroot noodles from Bac Kan and hundreds of specialties all find their way to Saigon, mostly by train.
Food with a short shelf-life like tofu from the famous Mo village in Hanoi, salted pork and hand-ground squid cakes are treated with care and get here by air.
Instant food like the sweet dessert 'che' and sticky rice also secure a seat on the planes that shuttle between the regions.
Hanoi’s square ‘banh chung’ still reigns supreme and takes up the most space.
According to shop owners, despite being brought from the capital, the price here is still not much higher than in Hanoi.
Processed foods such as ground meat cake ‘gio’ and ‘cha’ are also easy to find for northern people living in Saigon.
Not everything sold in these markets is exclusive to the North.
Many shop owners still want their goods to be shipped from their home towns.
Housewives can find all kinds of food that remind them of the scent of Hanoi here like ‘sau’ (dratoncomelon).
Northern style pickles, sauces and pastes are available all year round.
Some shops offer the beer lovers’ favorite snack: ‘banh da’, the thin crunchy crackers riddled with black sesame seeds that has become a part of after-work culture.
Fresh lime leaves, the most important aromatic compliment for the popular boiled chicken, found on every corner in the north but almost nowhere in the south.
Northern fruits are also a good seller.
Everything you need is within reach.
Even if the fruit you are after is not available, a quick phone call will quickly satisfy your craving.
Kien Giang, a destination of National Tourism Year 2016
Kien Giang Province in southwestern Vietnam is one of the best places to explore the Mekong River Delta.
Blessed by nature, Kien Giang is home to the beautiful scenery of Ha Tien and Phu Quoc Island and historically famous spots like Chong islet, Chem islet, Phu Tu islet, Mui Nai beach, and U Minh forest.
Kien Giang Province has greater tourist potential than most of the other Mekong Delta provinces.
It has become a popular destination for tourists who want to experience historical, cultural, ecological, and marine tourism.
This year, the province is hosting the National Tourism Year 2016 with the theme “Phu Quoc- Mekong River Delta- Exploring the Southern Land”.
Tourist activities scheduled throughout this year will to promote tourism potential, advantages and products of Kien Giang and nearby provinces.
Tran Chi Dung is Director of Kien Giang’s Department of Culture, Sports and Tourism: “This year, we want to attract more foreign tourists.
We’re creating more tours to boost local tourism”.
Kien Giang is one of Vietnam’s 28 coastal cities and provinces.
Its sea covers more than 63,000 square kilometers and its coast is about 200 km.
The province has 143 islands, 43 of them inhabited.
These islands and their beautiful beaches represent a great potential for ecological and marine tourism.
Phu Quoc is a popular destination.
Its famous beaches include Truong, Dai, and Hon Thom.
Iris Bijlisma, a tourist from the Netherlands, said, “This is really rare on Earth.
I think I have never seen such a beautiful place”.
Phu Quoc Island has some primal forests with a rich system of fauna and flora.
The forests with their multiple streams and lakes provide fresh water for the residents.
The wild natural forests and romantic sea give Phu Quoc an impressive beauty.
Huynh Quang Hung, Deputy Chairman of the Phu Quoc People’s Committee, says there are many projects to upgrade Phu Quoc’s tourism infrastructure.
Once they are completed, Phu Quoc will be able to accommodate more tourists and host major national events.
Hung said, “We hope that the number of visitors to Phu Quoc will increase sharply this year because of the activities we have organized for National Tourism Year.
Many new luxury resorts open this year”.
Kien Giang Province has many national historical relics and scenic spots including Hang pagoda, Nguyen Trung Truc Communal House in Rach Gia, the Mui Nai relic site, Thach Dong Cave and the Phu Quoc Church.
U Minh Thuong National Park in Kien Giang Province was recognized this year as the 8th Ramsar Site in Vietnam and the 2,228th Ramsar Site in the world.
The most beautiful destinations in Lai Chau
Besides O Quy Ho Pass, travelers are also attracted by the Muong Thanh green fields and the picturesque Pu Dao village.
The administrative center of Lai Chau.
O Quy Ho Pass, connecting two northern provinces of Lao Cai and Lai Chau.
The pass is nearly 500 kilometers long encompassing two thirds of Lai Chau's Tam Duong District, and one third of Lao Cai's Sapa District.
Tourists will have to cover a few kilometers from Hoang Lien National Park gate to come to the top of O Quy Ho Mountain considered the border between Lao Cal and Lai Chau.
Chu Va Mountain
Muong Thanh field in Than Uyen district.
Lai Chau Hydropower in Nam Hang commune, Muong Te district.
Sin Ho plateau, which is called the second Sapa of Vietnam.
The confluence of the two rivers of Da and Nam Na.
In addition, Lai Chau has a lot of destinations as Pu Sam Cap Cave, the villages of Na Luong, Hon, Vnag Pheo, Tac Tinh Waterfall, Vang Po hot springs, Pu Ta Leng peak - the second roof of Indochina and Bach Moc Luong Tu mountain.
Phuoc Tich ancient village embodies Hue beauty
40 km north of the central city of Hue is the small village of Phuoc Tich, which has changed very little in hundreds of years.
The modest, peaceful village is a popular destination in Hue.
Visitors are charmed by the village’s gardens of centuries-old trees, which have been preserved by the locals as a precious heritage.
The village spreads out beside the poetic O Lau River and has all the typical features of a traditional Vietnamese village.
Bui Thi Hai Quyen of the Que Huong Service Company said: “Walking around the village, tourists enjoy unaccustomed peacefulness, the rustic sound of cocks crowing and birds singing in the early morning and the smell of wood burning.
They like walking around the village, admiring the ancient architecture and feeling their lives slow down.
They visit ceramic furnaces and enjoy local specialties prepared by local female cooks in ancient houses".
Visitors to Phuoc Tich are amazed at its ancient houses.
More than 30 houses in the village are up to a century old.
A dozen of the village’s clan worshipping houses and temples remain intact.
They are so well preserved as to astonish cultural anthropologists, architects, and historians.
The village’s ancient houses are nha ruong, a kind of residence built with artfully carved wooden pillars and beams.
They are held together with wooden pegs so they can be easily dismantled.
Phuoc Tich houses are made principally of jackfruit wood and are adorned with exquisite carvings, most of which remain undamaged despite having gone through many wars throughout the years.
Most of the ancient houses in the village have large yards full of old trees and separated by rows of tea trees, creating an exotic green space.
Le Trong Dien, the owner of an ancient house in Phuoc Tich, said both the ancient houses and their gardens attract tourists: 
“Phuoc Tich people are hospitable and they want to introduce their houses to others. Phuoc Tich ceramics, trees, and lifestyles are different from elsewhere”.
Visitors are introduced to a unique way of producing ceramic products and may try to work as a ceramic craftsman, just one of the many unforgettable experiences Phuoc Tich provides.
Local people treasure their ceramic making craft and devote a separate area, known as Treng Islet, to preserving ancient ceramic pieces.
They were very expensive and very sought-after.
At that time, our village was rich with many houses.
All children went to school.
Phuoc Tich people began making ceramic products in 1940.
At that time, I was small.
In 1975, I began making ceramic products.
Ruong houses in Phuoc Tich were built with revenues from selling ceramic items”.
Visitors to Phuoc Tich also like the local food specialties, especially the rice cakes made by local women.
Ms Nguyen Thi Thuy, who lives in the village, said local women set up a cooking club to introduce local food to visitors: “Here we serve pickles, pork with shrimp sauce, and a variety of rice cakes.
Our club has 16 members.
By joining the club, local women can earn extra income”.
Tourists to Phuoc Tich often arrange to stay in local houses living with the local people and learning something about their lives.
Traveling along beautiful roads of the South, Central Highlands
The coastal road starting from Ben Tre to Ca Mau Cape is an interesting route that covers the southern region and central highlands of Vietnam.
The coastal road from Ben Tre to Ca Mau
The Hau river
The first day travel from HCM City, following National Highway 1 through the southern provinces of Long An, Tien Giang, to Trung Luong junction in My Tho City; then turn to National Highway 60 to go to Ben Tre Province.
Crossing Co Chien River, you will go to the city of Tra Vinh, where you can spend the night.
The second day, from Tra Vinh you will move along National Highway 60 to Soc Trang province, where you will see the vast Hau River dividing the two provinces.
Getting a ferry, go to Cu Lao Dung (Dung Islet) of Soc Trang Province and then from Cu Lao Dung to Soc Trang.
Depending on time, you can stay overnight in Soc Trang or go to Bac Lieu or Ca Mau.
On the third day, you will go along Highway 1A to the Cape of Ca Mau, the southern tip of the country.
Now that you've finished exploring the coastal road of Southern Hau River, you go from HCM City to Ca Mau on National Highway 1A as usual.
On this road, you can stop at tourist attractions like Thoi Son islet, Phung islet, Vinh Trang pagoda (in Tien Giang and Ben Tre), Ba Om pond, Khmer culture museum (Tra Vinh), Bat pagoda, Clay pagoda, Chen Kieu temple (Soc Trang), the house of Bac Lieu playboy, Cao Van Lau memorial house, Quan Am pagoda, Xiem temple (Bac Lieu), Ca Mau Cape...
Explore Dong Thap Muoi
Dong Thap Muoi includes the provinces of Long An, Tien Giang and Dong Thap, famous for vast fields, unique wetland ecosystems of mangrove forests.
The road from Saigon to Dong Thap Muoi is great, for the roadside scenery, experience the life and culture ...
In HCM City, from Phu Lam roundabout (District 6), you take TL10 Road to Long An, to Duc Hoa town then continue along N2 Road through Thanh Hoa district to National Highway 62.
From here, you will go into Dong Thap Muoi. After arriving in the town of Tan Thanh, you will have two choices:
Running on Road 829 along Duong Van Duong Canal to Road 844 to reach Tram Chim National Park, in Tam Nong District, Dong Thap Province.
You will spend a night there to discover Tram Chim the next morning.
The second choice is following National Highway 62 along the border with Cambodia, through the districts of Moc Hoa, Tan Hung, Vinh Hung (Long An province) to Hong Ngu Town (Dong Thap).
From Hong Ngu, following National Highway 30 down to Cao Lanh city, from there to Road 844 to Tram Chim.
The second day, after visiting Tram Chim National Park, you will go to Cao Lanh and stay there one night before visiting Gao Giong, the site of the tomb of Nguyen Sinh Sac, father of President Ho Chi Minh
The third day, you travel from Cao Lanh to Sa Dec to visit the Huynh Thuy Le house, Kien An Cung pagoda, Tan Quy Dong flower village, then follow National Highway 1A to HCM City.
Trekking Ta Nang - Phan Dung
Ta Nang - Phan Dung is a big challenge for those who love adventure because you can only walk, but the scene isbeautiful and majestic.
This entire stretch of road is about 50 km extending from Lam Dong province to Binh Thuan.
Ta Dung Lake
With more than 36 islands and beautiful natural scenery, the lake is called “Ha Long Bay of the Central Highland”.
The lake is located on the border of two provinces of Lam Dong and Dak Nong.
It still is pristine, without any tourism services.
Immersed in pure nature, watch the beauty of the lake at dawn or dusk is romantic.
Also you can encamp on a small island in the lake.
There are two ways for you to get to Ta Dung.
The first is from Ho Chi Minh City to Di Linh on National Highway 20, and then to National Highway 28 to reach Ta Dung.
The second way, you take National Highway 14 to Dak Nong, Gia Nghia town and following National Highway 28 to Quang Khe district and then to Ta Dung.
Mang Den
Dubbed as the second Da Lat in the Central Highlands, Mang Den is located in Kon Plong district, Kon Tum province, with the cool climate of the highlands with vast pine forests.
The quiet space is suitable for those who want to rest and relax.
From Kon Tum city, you take National Highway 24 about 50 km east to the town of Mang Den.
The attractions here include the system of seven lakes of Toong Ly Leng, Toong Ziu, Toong Zori, Toong Sang, Toong Po, Toong Dam, and three waterfalls of Dak Ke, Pa Sy and Dak Pne.
The world of mushrooms in Da Lat forests
In the Nui Ba Bidoup National Park this season, you can see a special world of mushrooms.
The park is located in Lac Duong district and is a part of Dam Rong district, Lam Dong province.
It has an area of 63,938 ha with multiform natural resources and beautiful scenery, especially waterfalls.
Bidoup – Nui Ba national park is one of twenty-eight national parks of Vietnam.
It is considered one of 221 regions which has many special kinds of bird and one of four biological multiform centers of Vietnam.
Belonging to the preservation ecological system of Truong Son mountain range, Bidoup – Nui Ba is located in the main range of the South of Truong Son.
It is a place receiving intense interest in preservation.
91% of its area is forest, of which there are primeval forest with many species of animals and plants.
It has 1933 species of plant, of which there are 62 precious species that have been ranked in the red – book of Vietnam since 2000.
There are 91 species in Lam Dong and adjacent areas.
28 species have been called the Latin word including dalatensis (9 species), langbianensis (14 species) and bidoupensis(5 species).
There are 56 species of animals recorded as precious animals, 47 species recorded in the red – book of Vietnam since 2007 and 30 species in the red – book of IUCN since 2010.
Bidoup – Nui Ba is also considered a Kingdom of Vietnamese Orchids with over 250 species.
The park is home to many mushroom species.
This has become a new destination in Da Lat.
Da Nang fireworks competition will get bigger and better
The city plans three weeks full of events for next year's edition
The biennial Da Nang International Fireworks will be held every year from 2017 and will last for three weeks instead of only two days as in the past.
Sun Group will organize the event in March when the central city celebrates its liberation day March 29, Da Nang's government announced Friday.
The city began to host the annual event in 2008 but it became a biennial competition in 2013 due to financial difficulties.
There have been mix results and the competition in some years failed to attract as many tourists as expected.
Sun Group now believes it can successfully run the event every year.
According to the group, eight teams are expected to compete next year, including Da Nang and past champions.
There will be other events to attract tourists including a food festival, paragliding shows and an international music festival, a company spokesperson said.
Sun Group said it will spend around VND50 billion (US$2.25 million) for the 2017 competition.
Official statistics showed the number of tourists visiting Da Nang during the fireworks event surged from 50,000 in 2008 to 460,000 last year.
The charm of Sapa
Many local and foreign tourists often pick Sapa as part of their journeys to the northwest of Vietnam to not only enjoy the cool climate and scenes but also explore the diverse cultures of ethnic minority groups
Tourists buy souvenirs from ethnic minority vendors in front of the stone church in Sapa
Visitors to the hilly town can see many women of ethnic minority peoples Mong, Dao and Tay selling original souvenirs in front of the renowned stone church, along streets and markets to earn a living.
They also sell rice and corn wines, vegetables and other specialties of the northeastern region.
Phu Quoc’s tourist attractions
Phu Quoc island in Kien Giang province attracts tourists for its beautiful scenery and also many special products like fish sauce, pepper, rose myrtle wine and juice.
These local products have made Phu Quoc famous.
Fish sauce factories are one of many tourist destinations in Phu Quoc.
Local people began making fish sauce 200 years ago and the local fish sauce has become famous around Vietnam and overseas.
Visiting fish sauce factories, tourists are overwhelmed by large wooden vats holding tons of anchovies.
Tourists are most interested in witnessing the many steps in making the product.
Salt and anchovies are the main materials in its production.
Each factory has its own secret for making delicious fish sauce.
Ho Kim Lien is the owner of Khai Hoan fish sauce company said “Phu Quoc fish sauce is made in the local traditional way.
Compared to tourism, making fish sauce earns less income but it is our traditional trade, we want to keep it.
I’m proud of our products.
We always try to improve the quality of our products to meet the demands of customers inside and outside the country.
Tourists are interested in visiting our factories”.
Vicent, a French tourist said “I have heard about Phu Quoc pepper and I myself like its taste very much.
I’m lucky to have a chance to visit a pepper garden and taste local pepper, which has a unique flavor.
I will buy pepper as gifts for my friends and tell them that this is Phu Quoc pepper of Vietnam”.
During the main harvesting season running from February through July, farmers collect ripe peppercorns and divide them into black, red and white pepper.
Ruffino, a tourist from France, is interested in witnessing the steps in harvesting and drying the pepper.
“I’m lucky to visit a pepper garden in Phu Quoc and see with my own eyes green and ripe pepper. They are in different colors.
I like the pepper’s taste.
I found out that pepper can also be used to make many special dishes”, said Ruffino.
Rose myrtle is also a specialty of Phu Quoc.
Tourists can visit gardens and learn about a variety of rose myrtle products.
Nguyen Thanh Son, owner of a rose myrtle garden in Phu Quoc said: “Rose myrtle products have become strong and a tourist product in Phu Quoc in addition to pepper and fish sauce.
We make rose myrtle wine, tea, juice and jam.
These products sell well.
Rose myrtle is a forest plant, so it very clean and rose myrtle fruits are nutritious. Because the yield is not high and stable, we are researching new varieties of rose myrtle and transfer the technology to farmers”.
Leaving Phu Quoc island, tourists bring home photos of beautiful beaches and scenery as well as special local products.
Magnificent cloud-covered scenery of Da Lat
Coming to Da Lat in spring, you will have a chance to enjoy the cold weather and being on a fairy land among drifting and bobbing clouds.
Clouds cover romantic pink meadows.
A rainbow adds beauty to mountainous streets.
Cu Hill lying by Xuan Huong Lake in Da Lat City’s center looks splendid in the sun.
Water lilies on the lake at the foot of Cu Hill.
Da Lat City at sunset
the city seen from above at night.
Enjoying the cloudy city is an unforgettable experience of tourists.
Crop blessing rite of the Ha Nhi
The Ha Nhi have many important ceremonies each year including the Lunar New Year festival, forest worship, and crop blessing rite.
To Tuan describes the Ha Nhi’s crop blessing rite.
The rite “Khu Gia Gia” means “bumper crop” in the Ha Nhi language.
It’s the biggest event for the Ha Nhi, in which they express their gratitude to the genies who have protected and blessed them with bumper crops.
The third day is for festive activities.
A Ha Nhi legend says the genies come down to earth to play see-saw and swinging. Every year the Ha Nhi make a new see-saw and swing first for worship, then for the villagers to play on.
Their games symbolize reproduction. The men and women dance together, sing duets, and play the Jew’s harp.
The Khu Gia Gia festival demonstrates the Ha Nhi’s gratitude to their ancestors and genies, who are believed to have a direct impact influence on their lives while enhancing community bonds and mutual support.
Vietnam's most beautiful waterfalls
Ban Gioc Waterfall on the Quy Xuan River is located in Cao Bang Province, nears the Sino-Vietnamese border.
The waterfall falls thirty meters.
It is separated into three falls by rocks and trees, and the thundering effect of the water hitting the cliffs can be heard kilometers away from Trung Khanh.
Ban Doc Waterfall is situated in Dam Thuy Commune, Trung Khanh District.
The Quay Son River rises from China flowing into Vietnam in Po Peo (Ngoc Khe Commune) and to communes including Dinh Phong and Chi Vien.
When it reaches Dam Thuy Commune of Trung Khanh District, the mild river circles around Co Muong mountain bottom and flows to rice fields of Dam Thuy towards the large maize alluvial plain of Ban Gioc village.
Here, the flow divides into many branches and lowers its flow to creat Ban Gioc Waterfall.
Water from Quy Xuan River falling down on the stone creates water droplets columns that can be seen from a distance.
The temperature near the waterfall is remarkably cool, due to the water mist in the air.
At the foot of the waterfall is a large river, as calm as glass, surrounded by many precious kinds of flowers.
The sight in Ban Gioc Waterfall bears a poetic, fresh, quiet beauty of water, forest and cloud area mixed with village atmosphere of mountainous ethnic minorities.
