Phu Tho is a midland province in the Northern of Vietnam with nature land area at 3,532km2, of which 97,610ha are agricultural land, 200,000 ha of forest land including 64,064 ha of natural forest, 10,000 ha of water surface for aquaculture and other land.
The province plays as a northwest gate of Hanoi capital, is 50 kilometers distance from He kou international border gate (between Lao Cai – Vietnam and Yunnan - China). This province is the center of the region and is the meeting point of three large rivers (Da river, Red river and Lo river), so it makes Phu Tho favorable traffic system on land, railway and by water. This foundation makes strong potential for economic development and exchange with the other economic regions of both domestic and other nations.
Phu Tho is well known as the cradle of civilization of Lac Viet culture – the center land of Viet ancient people – era Hung Kings – Van Lang country.
Passing thousand years of history, this land still preserves a relic system remarks the foundation of the country. There are more than 1,372 historical monuments of culture (of which, Hung temple is a special national monument), and 223 folk festivals, and specific arts (specially, “Xoan Singing of Phu Tho province” - the intangible cultural heritage in need of urgent safeguarding and Hung Kings Worship and Belief in Phu Tho – the intangible cultural heritage representative of humanity have been recognized by UNESCO in 2011 and 2012).
Phu Tho is also famous for well-known tourist attractions including Xuan Son National Park (with system of interesting caverns and caves, diversified plants and animals), Thanh Thuy hot mineral water site with huge capacity for health care, Ao Chau and Van Hoi lagoon, Ao Gioi – Suoi Tien (God Pond – Fairy spring), ect.
In order to exploit all potentials and strengthens on tourism,  Phu Tho made a planning of tourism development in term from 2011 – 2015 and orientation to 2030 and encourages both domestic and international investors on developing tourism of culture and original spirit, ecological – beauty of nature tourism, tourism of resorts and health care, ect.
Phu Tho province warmly welcomes and will be your companion in the investment process.
Investment project to build Southern Hung King Temple Tourism and Service area - Hung King Temple historical monument:
Project’s name: Investing to build Southern Hung King Temple Tourism and Service area
Location: At Hung King Temple historical monument, Viet Tri city, Phu Tho province.
Description: the project is executed on total land area at 235.026 ha, including two functional areas:
Hung King culture tourism village: 80.02 ha, including following work items:
Reception area, technical infrastructure and common works; total land area for building is at 28.69 ha; building area is at 21,352 m2.
Area for building of patriotic-war-dead memorial: total land area for building is at 5.91 ha, building area is at 7000 m2.
Area of Hung King culture and exhibition: total land area for building is at 45.42 ha, building area is at 48,523 m2.
Forest at South: 155.01 ha, including:
Reception area and supplying common service; total land area for building is at 6.54 ha, building area is at 13,900 m2.
Forest of odd and strange flowers and plants: total land area for building is at 14.09 ha, building area is at 16,167 m2.
Mountainous and beautiful view area: total land area for building is at 34.55 ha, building area is at 22,142 m2.
Resort with future house: total land area for building is at 36.12 ha, building area is at 38,136 m2.
Complex area of service and forest structure with season color changing: total land area for building is at 23.38 ha, building area is at 37,283 m2.
Area of project management Board and common works: total land area for building is at 37.32 ha, building area is at 23,839 m2.
Investment project to build service and tourism area of Xuan Son National Park:
Project’s name: Investing to build Tourism and Service area of Xuan Son National Park
Location: Xuan Son National Park, Tan Son district, Phu Tho province.
Description: total land area for building is at 43.791 ha, including four functional areas:
Tourism area of creature and landscape (core area of Xuan Son National Park) with total area at 15,890.43ha, including all area of Xuan Son commune, a part of Tan Phu, Dong Son, Lai Dong, Tan Son, Xuan Dai and Kim Thuong communes.
Area of tourism, service and trade of Thach Kiet – Tan Phu is 7,056.49ha consists of all area of Tan Phu, Thach Kiet and Xuan Dai communes.
Area of urban, culture, and sport of Minh Dai – Van Luong with land area at 4,364.75ha including Minh Dai and Van Luong communes.
Farms and feeding semi-wild animals with total area at 15,402.18ha,including a land part of Dong Son, Lai Dong, Kiet Son, Tan Son, Xuan Dai, and Kim Thuong communes.
Investment project to build Thanh Thuy hot mineral water tourism area
Project’s name: Investing to build Thanh Thuy hot mineral water tourism area
Location: Thanh Thuy district, Phu Tho province.
Description: total land area for building is at 4,472.54 ha, including 9 functional areas:
Center of culture, sports, entertainment and trade: 327.70ha (including Thach Khoan, La Phu, Son Thuy, Bao Yen, Doan Ha communes)
Special tourism area: 64.01 ha (including La Phu, Son Thuy communes)
Villas and resorts: 89.01 ha (including Thach Khoan, La Phu communes)
Area of hot mineral water bathing and product from nature: 41.56ha (Son Thuy communes)
Area of ecological tourism and golf: 843.70ha (including La Phu, Son Thuy and Bao Yen communes)
Area of cinema: 410.46ha (Thach Khoan, La Phu communes)
Resident area and new urban area: 363.29ha (including Thach Khoan, La Phu, Son Thuy, Bao Yen, Doan Ha communes)
Area of infrastructure, management and production of mineral water bottles and common works: 131.94ha (including Thach Khoan, La Phu, Son Thuy, Bao Yen, Doan Ha communes)
Buffer areas to maintain sites and protect water resoures, rural area and afforest: 2,075.36ha (including Thach Khoan, La Phu, Bao Yen, Doan Ha communes)
Investment project to build Van Lang service and tourism area:
Project’s name: Investing to build Van Lang tourism and service area
Location: Viet Tri city, Phu Tho province.
Description: under the project’s planning, the project is executed on total land area at 116.2 ha, including 13 functional areas:
Lac Long Quan – Au Co area: 6.64ha, including works: Gate, bar and coffee, souvenir shops, water palace, Mrs. Au Co statue, statues of 54 ethnics of Vietnam people, house for rest, WC and parking.
Son Tinh – Thuy Tinh area: including works and items: Gate, upper floor for choosing son – in – law, house for taking photograph, bonsai pool, house for rest, statues of gifts (elephant with 9 ivories, chicken with 9 spurs), ventilation booth house, restaurant of fish, car parking, tower of fishing.
Area for legend of Hung King era: 5.25ha, including works and items: area of piper bithe and areca –nut history, magic rice history, Chung  and Giay cake history, WC, car parking.
Area of Tien Dung – Chu Dong Tu island: 0.62ha, including works and building: Tien Dung – Chu Dong Tu Palace.
Mai An Tiem Island: 0.21ha
Area of culture and art performance: 2.03ha, including works and items: communal house of Hung King, other auxiliaries works as Xoan singing performance area, service house, statue of Ms. Que Hoa, flower house, house for rest, car parking.
Area for teenagers: 1.99ha, including works and items: square for entertainment, Thanh Giong statue, area for camping, clubs for teenagers.
Green tree area: 15.19ha
Public service area: 2.33ha, including works of management house, Van Lang bookstore, souvenir shops, flower shop, house for taking photograph, house for fine arts exhibition.
Area of food: 1.36ha, including: drinking and ice-cream shop, boats house, small hotel (two floors), and small restaurant.
Management area: 0.26ha
Water surface: 64.30ha, including bonsai pool, sigh-seeing, boating, ect.
Car parking: 1.77ha including management house, hall, kiots, house for guards.
Investment project to build Ao Chau lagoon tourism area:
Project’s name: Investing to build Ao Chau lagoon tourism area
Location: Ha Hoa district, Phu Tho province
Descision of planning: No.3522/QD – UB dated 15th October 2001 by Phu Tho People’s Committee on approving the general planning of Ao Chau lagoon tourism area, Ha Hoa district.
Description: the project is executed on total land area at 1500 ha (of which 300ha of water surface), including the followed functional areas:
Center of reception and tourism controlling: 15ha
The main guest house and hotel (1-2 stars): 7.5ha
Area of park with general entertainment: 18ha
Area of camping and fishing: 55ha
Guest house for common people: 60ha
Green park with special plants: 120ha
Animal park: 95ha
Green park for landscape: 34.5ha
Area for local resident: 33ha
Area for development reservation: 23ha
Traffic (road, bus-stop): 9ha
Route for visit along lagoon and to functional areas
Protection forests and buffer area: 800ha
Investment project to build works of culture, technical infrastructure for tourism and service at Au Co Mother Temple:
Au Co Mother Temple is one of the national cultural monuments which last for more 5 centuries. And now this temple is the original of Au Co Mother worship of Vietnam.
The Au Co Mother Temple has high value on architectural art. Festival of Au Co Mother Temple has also much supernatural power in sprit of Vietnamese people.
The temple locates near Ao Chau lagoon, Ao Gioi – Suoi Tien (Heaven Pond – Fairy stream), Van Hoi lagoon, and places on the route from Hung King Temple - Au Co Mother Temple – Yen Bai province – Lao Cai province.
Phu Tho is calling investors to build culture constructions and technical infrastructure for service of tourism and exploit the tourism service of spirit and culture connected with beautiful landscape.
Investment project to build technical infrastructure for tourism and service at the Lang Suong Temple:
The historical monument – Lang Suong Temple locates at Lang Suong hamlet, Trung Nghia commune, Thanh Thuy district, Phu Tho province. It is far from Thanh Thuy hot mineral water  tourism area at 5 km, and far from Ho Chi Minh historical monument (Da Chong – Ba Vi - Hanoi) at 3km and placed on tourism route of Thanh Thuy hot mineral water tourism area – Xuan Son national park.
This is nominal monument for worship of mother at North Delta and the worship of Tan Vien hero at Ba Vi mountain.
Lang Suong Temple is planed as place of festival tourism with total area at 42,970m2, including functional places of culture, cuisine, staying facility and service.
Phu Tho is calling investors to build culture constructions and technical infrastructure for service of tourism to exploit the tourism service of spirit and culture.
Investment project to build technical infrastructure for tourism and service at the historical and culture monument Phuc Co revolution base:
The Phuc Co revolution base at Minh Hoa commune, Yen Lap district is one of five famous resistance bases of Phu Tho province at time of pre-revolution. It is recognized as historical and cultural monument of the province.
This area has unspoiled landscape with Long Chao stream and many small waterfalls that is favorable for tourism investment on services of ecology, resort, traditional culture of Muong ethnic people.
Under the plan,  culture and historical monument – Phuc Co revolution base will connect with community ecology tourism with total area at 330ha with functional areas as management area, area of tourism services – convalesces – entertainment with tour of crossing waterfall.
Phu Tho is calling investors to build culture constructions and technical infrastructure for service of tourism to exploit the tourism service of spirit and culture, ecology and beautiful landscape….
Investment project to build Hem waterfall tourism area (Cloudy Waterfall)
The Cloudy waterfall gets total area at 800 ha of Luoi Hai mountain, Huong Can communes, Thanh Son district, Phu Tho province. It is far from Viet Tri city at 60km on the southwest, and far from Thanh Thuy hot mineral water tourism area at 20km on the west, near to highway 316 about 1 km.
This area has a beautiful and wild landscape with primeval forest, protection forest and fresh environment.
It contains 13 small and large falls which pour water into diversified rock making wonderful landscape.
Phu Tho is calling investors to build the Cloudy waterfall area as ecology tourism and resorts.
Investment project to build Cu Dong waterfall (the Mo Waterfall)
Located on Cu Thang commune, Thanh Son district, Phu Tho province, is about 15km on the west away from Thanh Thuy hot mineral water tourism area, far from Xuan Son national park about 55km and near to highway 316 about 3 km.
The Mo waterfall is a system of small and continuous falls, of which, there are many over 50m ones pour over steep cliffs down the beach of iridescent magic pebbles.
Phu Tho encourages investment to change the Mo waterfall as ecology tourism area.
Investment project to build Van Hoi lagoon tourism area
Located in Hien Luong commune, Ha Hoa district, Phu Tho province, the lagoon is far from Viet Tri about 80km, far from Au Co Mother Temple about 1 km, near to Hai Phong – Ha Noi – Kunming (China) highway.
The lagoon has a water surface of more than 200ha and 40 islands with the largest island is 10ha of area.
It has the system of water open supply and drainage so it can always maintain a stable water level which is very clean and pure.
Surrounding the lagoon is the system of mountains, hills, forests that creates a poetic landscape.
Phu Tho is calling investors to build the Van Hoi lagoon area become a tourism area of convalescences and luxury entertainment.
Other projects:
Besides these projects, Phu Tho is encouraging investment on tourism projects: hotel with 4-5 stars, project to build Ao Gioi – Suoi Tien (Ha Hoa district) as ecology tourism area; project to build archaeological site of Ca village, Mun hill, Ren hamlet as destinations of culture tourism.
Incentives on land use:
Investors have the right to select the appropriate location and land area to suit their project scale based on approved plan and the right to choose between assigning the land with land usage fee and leasing the land under the current laws.
Investors are exempt from land lease fees from 3 to 15 years and enjoy a reduction of land lease fees from 20 to 50% depending on types of projects and investment locations in accordance with Decree No.: 142/2005/ND-CP dated 14th November 2005; the Decree No.: 121/2010/ND-CP dated 30th December 2010.
Investment projects on infrastructure of industrial zones shall receive support at 10% of land rent.
Tax incentives policies:
Incentive beneficiaries: investors in the province are entitled to incentives according to investment sectors and locations as provided by Decree No 108/2006/ND-CP dated 22nd September, 2006 by the Government to issue detailed instructions for the implementation of certain clauses and provisions of the Law on Investment.
Incentives on enterprise income tax, import tax are defined in Investment Law, Import Export Tax Law, Decree No 124/2008/ND-CP dated December 11th, 2008; Decree No 149/2005/ND-CP dated December 8th, 2005 and current regulations remaining in force at the time of the project.
Investors shall be entitled 10% to 20% of reduction of tax rates for 10 to 30 years according to types of project and investment locations. Investors shall be enjoyed tax holiday from 2 to 4 years and  50% reduction of tax rates in the next 4 to 9 years depending on types of projects and investment location.
Investor shall be exempted from import and export tax for create fixed asset of investment project in accordance with approved lists and regulation current  in force.
Other incentives policies:
Received provision of power and water supply to the boundary of the project.
Gained support for road construction to the boundary of the industrial zones on scale depending on kind of project and area of investment but shorter than 3km.
Exempted from infrastructure fees during construction period (which does not exceed a maximum of 3 years) for the special incentive project; and exempted all with the project on public service in industrial zones.
The special important projects for the province shall be considered for special support policies.
Provided free of charge with documents relating to the project.
Exempted from administrative fees required for project application with project licensed by the province.
Exempted for fees for participation in investment and trade promotion conference organized in the province.
Exempted from contribution fees for the province when joining the province’s team to attend other investment promotion events.
Administrative procedure for receiving investment project.
Phu Tho provincial People’s Committee promulgated “One door” for all projects in Phu Tho with quick, clear, effective procedure. It reduces inconvenient, cost, and time of investors.
Investor shall prepare documents and submit at one of two main doors:
Department of Investment and Planning (for projects outside of industrial zone)
Industrial Zones Management Board (for projects within industrial zone).
Investment approval procedures:
Types of documents:
Application for investment Approval Award by Investor.
Summary of investment project.
Recipient Agency and processing duration:
Department of Investment and Planning ( evaluation and recommendation) Duration: within 07 working days.
Phu Tho People’s Committee (consideration for approval) Duration: within 02 working days.
Investment Certificate Procedure:
Types of documents:
Location acceptance Permit (approved)
Investment Approval Award by the Province’s People committee
Investment project report and other related documents (if any)
Environmental assessment report (or commitment for environmental protection) - approved
Request for Investment Certificate issuance
Recipient Agency and processing duration:
Department of Investment and Planning ( evaluation and recommendation)Duration: within 15 working days.
Phu Tho People’s Committee (consideration for approval) Duration: within 02 working days.
Procedure of establishment of enterprises, branches, representative offices
Types of documents:
Application (or notice on the establishment of branches, representative offices)
Identify card
Charter of company
Recipient Agency and processing duration:
Department of Investment and Planning ( consideration for issuance)Duration: within 05 working days.
Procedure of applying construction Permit
Documents consist:
Application for construction permit
Copy of document certifying of land use as a required by the Law on land
Blue prints of construction plan, cross section, typical vertical cut section, foundation plan, position plan, electricity and water plan with technical connection point for electricity, water and sewage system.
Recipient Agency and processing duration:
Department of Investment and Planning (receiving records and transfer to Construction Department)Duration: within 02 working days.
Construction Department (consideration for issuance) Duration: within 15 working days.
Investment and Planning Department
Address: Tran Phu roal, Tan Dan ward, Viet Tri city, Phu Tho province
TeL:+84-210 3 846 581
Fax: +84-210 3 840 955
Email: pitc.phutho@gmail.com
Website:www.dpi.phutho.gov.vn
Phu Tho Investment, Trade and Tourism Promotion Center (Investors supporting and consulting agency)
Address: Tran Phu road, Tan Dan ward, Viet Tri city, Phu Tho province
Tex:+84-210 3 993 689
Fax: +84-210 3 993 589
Email: ptic.phutho@gmail.com
Website:www.dpi.phutho.gov.vn
Phu Tho Culture, Sport and Tourism Department (assisting investors)
Division of Resource and Tourism Development
Address: Tran Phu road, Tan Dan ward, Viet Tri city, Phu Tho province
Tex:+84-210 3 686 979
Fax: +84-210 3 848 545
Email: tainguyendulichphutho@gmail.com
PMU of Culture, Sport and Tourism
Address: Tran Phu road, Tan Dan ward, Viet Tri city, Phu Tho province
Tex:+84-210 3 940 531
Fax: +84-210 3 952 068
