Phu Tho is a midland and mountainous province lying in the middle of Northern Vietnam. It is situated at the apex of the triangular Northern plain delta, linking the Northern mountainous area and the flat plain. The province is where three big rivers Thao, Lo and Da joins each other and it is surrounded by two mountains namely Ba Vi and Tam Dao. Phu Tho back against the area of hills and mountains lying close to each other like upside down bowls at the end of Hoang Lien Son range. It looks over the fertile Red River delta. All these make Phu Tho a favorable position of “mountains gathering and rivers meeting”.
The nature endows Phu Tho with many beauty spots like Bach Hac crossroad, Ao Gioi Suoi Tien (God Pond - Fairy Stream), Ao Chau Lake, Van Hoi Lake, Thanh Thuy hot mineral water mine, Xuan Son National Park, etc. They are very valuable natural tourism resources for the development of ecotourism, health tourism and wildlife tourism.
Furthermore, Phu Tho is known as the place of national origin. Its historic-cultural traditions go along with the history of national construction and defense.
Hung Kings chose this place to start building up the nation that he named Van Lang, the first state of Vietnam.
The Temple of Hung Kings is there in Phu Tho being the ancestor worship place of the whole Vietnamese nation, the spot where the national strength and determination of great unity is seen and felt.
Well preserved in Phu Tho are thousands of historic-cultural relics, hundreds of folk festivals and folk music like Xoan and Gheo singing - traditional classical singings. They are the national precious cultural relics manifesting the original identity and unique human tourism resources attracting tourists.
Phu Tho is also famous for well-know tourist attractions including the historic complex of Hung Kings’ Temple, Viet Tri-the city of festivals, Thanh Thuy hot mineral water site, Xuan Son National Park. For the past years, the improvement in its tourism infrastructure with 1800 standard hotel rooms, luxurious transport means for tourists has attracted more than 3 million visits per year.
To provide information for managers, investors, tourism companies as well as inland and foreign visitors, Phu Tho’s Department of Culture, Sports and Tourism compiles Phu Tho Guidebook.
This will give tourism companies and tourists accurate and adequate information to plan the visits to Phu Tho easily and conveniently.
Hung Kings’ Temple is situated in Co Tich village, Hy Cuong commune, Viet Tri city Phu Tho province.
It is an architectural system dedicated to worship Hung Kings.
It is both a beauty spot and Vietnam’s important historic-cultural relic.
The temples are located on Nghia Linh Mountain at the elevation of 175m.
Looking from a long distance, Nghia Linh Mountain is like a dragon’s head toward The South. The landscape is marvelous and impressive; the land is full supernatural power with the gathering of mountains and rivers.
Hung Temple relic complex has the following constructions:
Temple Gate: Built in the second reigning year of Khai Dinh (1917), the Gate is 8.5 meters high and 45 meters high and 45 meter wide, 8-small-vault shaped. Its two sides are embossed with two boxers. One is holding a battle-axe while the other is holding a lance.
Ha Temple: It is built in 17th century in the shape of Chinese character of “Er” (means “two”) with two buildings, each of them has 3 rooms.
According to the legend, in this temple Mother Au Co gave birth to a pouch containing 100 eggs, which hatched into 100 children. This explains the meaning of the word compatriot in Vietnamese.
Thien Quang Pagoda: Located on the right of Ha Temple, the construction mainly built of wooden pillars with stone chock.
The pagoda was built during the Ly and Tran Dynasty and then rebuilt in Le Dynasty from 1427 to 1573. It worships Mahayana Buddha. In front of the pagoda is an approximately 700 year old cycad.
Trung Temple (Hung King Grandfathe temple): Trung Temple was built the earliest on Nghia Linh Mountain.
In 17th century, it was rebuilt in the style seen today.
According to the legend, it is the place where Hung Kings used to talk over state affairs and Hung King the sixth ceded the throne to his son Lang Lieu, who found how to make Trung (Square shaped) and Giay (Round shaped) cakes – sticky rice cakes.
Thuong Temple (Kinh Thien Linh Castle): The temple was restored in the second reigning year of Khai Dinh (1917) in the shape of Chinese character of “Wang” (means “King’).
In the front there are 4 pillars with the carved decorations of “two dragons flanking a moon”.
This is also the place where Hung Kings used to hold God of Heaven and Earth worshipping rituals to prayer for good weather, bumper crops, enough food and happiness for the people.
On the right of the front of Thuong Temple, there is a vowing stone pillar built by An Duong Vuong. After being ceded the thrown by the 18th Hung King, An Duong Vuong constructed this pillar and vowed that “I’ll defend the nation forever”.
This is the place dedicated to worship Thanh Giong who defeated An invaders.
Hung King's Tombs: The tomb is located on the left of the front of Thuong Temple. The tomb is cuboid-shaped the pillars are integrated into the walls, and eight roofs have curved lances. Inside the tomb is a cuboid. According to the legend this is the sixth Hung King’s grave.
Gieng Temple: Built in the 17th century at the foot of Southern Nghia Linh Mountain, it consists of 3 rows of rooms and 2 annexes at both sides.
In the temple, there is Ngoc Well where according to the legend two princesses Tien Dung and Ngoc Hoa used to see their images and brush their hair.
The well is so pure and never dry of water.
Hung Kings’ Temple Festivals are the biggest in the country.
It lasts from the time after New Year to March in Lunar calendar.
The number of visitors to the Festival is the largest from lunar March, 1st to 10th.
Every year, there are about more than 3 million visitors coming to Hung King’s Temple to burn incense, visit Grandfather’s grave and enjoy the Festivals.
The lunar tenth of March is the Hung King Grandfather’s death anniversary that was recognized as the National anniversary according to the Government’s decree of 82/2001/NDCP issued on November 6th, 2001.
Hung Kings’ death anniversary is held with many solemn and formal rituals at Thuong Temple.
The thurification ceremony is organized at national level in even years and at provincial level in odd ones.
The people in the neighborhoods like Hung Lo; Chu Hoa and Son Vi commune, Lam Thao town, Hy Cuong Commune, etc  hold the ceremony of palanquin procession to Hung Kings’ Temple.
The festival has traditional games like: unicorn and Hon dancing, having a tug of war, performing of four classes: scholars, farmers, workers and merchants; cultural-art activities like folk song singing, Xoan and Gheo singing; contests of rice cooking, chung cake wrapping, and Giay cake grinding; sports games tike volley ball and wrestling... Ten thousands of local people and visitors from everywhere participated in the festivals.
During the festival, the areas close to Hung Kings’ Temple also hold many cultural activities to increase the exciting atmosphere for Hung Kings' Temple Festivals.
Au Co Mother's Temple is located in Hien Luong commune, Ha Hoa district; Phu Tho province, it is 80 km away from Viet Tri city and 70 km away from Hanoi’s Trung Ha Bridge.
It was built in 1475 on a high hillock in a large plot of a field.
The temple lies under the shadow of a century-old banian tree, facing towards the South.
On the left is Loan well, on the right is Phuong well, in the front is a spectacular mountain like a writing desk, at the back is surrounded by snaking Red River, around is verdantly luxuriant trees.
The temple consists of 5 Dai Bai rooms and 3 harems. It has wooden carved works with high value of sculpture art; precious antiques like Au Co statue, Due Ong statue, and royal thrown, carved altar.
This is the place dedicated to worship The Nations Mother that is very important the system of Phu Tho’s historic relics.
The festival is officially held on the yearly lunar 7th of January.
Besides, there are some festivals on other days like the lunar 10th and 11th of February, 12th of March, 13th of August and 25th of December that is the day when "Fairies fly back to the heaven" Beginning the festivals is the worshipping ceremony dedicated to the Village's God, followed by the ceremony at The National Mother’s Temple from about 7 to 9 am. When the procession has arrived at the yard of the Temple, the ceremony at Au Co Mother’s Temple is carried out. Firstly, they hold the ceremony of thurification and offerings (including 100 kilos of cakes, 100 Pham Oan - steamed glutinous rice molded into a truncated cone, fruits and flowers). After that the thurifier team of female mandarin including 12 young virgins conduct the Mother ceremony according to the traditional customs.
After the ceremonies, local people and visitors from everywhere come into Mothers temple to offer flowers and incense.
In the temple yard taking place traditional games like swinging, human chess, cock fighting, To Tom-card game using a deck of 120 cards and played by five persons, cultural activities performances, and countryside markets. These add to the exciting atmosphere of the festival.
The relic site is located in Co Tiet commune, Tam Nong distried, Phu Tho Province 6km away from Tam Nong District.
It was recognized as the national relic according to 65/QD-BT decree issued on the 16th of January, 1995 by the Minister of Culture and Information.
This is Mr.Hoang Van Nguyen house in Go village where Ho Chi Minh President worked from the early morning on March 4th 1947 to March 18th 1947.
Here he:
Wrote the letter to the whole nations fellow citizens on 05/03/1947
Wrote the letter to the people in the rear on 05/03/ 1947
Wrote the letter to French Parliament and People on 05/03/1947
Wrote the letter to priest La Huu Tu diocesan on 10/3/1947
Gave the answer to the interview about the declare of France’s Prime Minister Ramandie on 9/3/1947
Signed of298 Decree to clarify the foreign trade procedures and the establishment of Foreign Trade Department on 14/3/1947
Composed the book "New life" with the pen name of Tan Binh
In this house, he also read Tran Hung Dao’s book on warfare (Tran Hung Dao is a very talented and famous General of Vietnam in Tran Dynasty) and Ton Tu’s book on leading military force.
In the evening of 18/3/1947, he moved from Co Tiet to Chu Hoa, Lam Thao Province to continue with Vietnam's long-term resistance war.
To confirm the purpose of Vietnam’s Revolution he named his guards and assistants “Truong-Ky-Khang-Chien-Nhat-Dinh-Thang-Loi” - each person’s name is one component in the expressions meant “Long-term Resistance War definitely ends with our victory”.
Xuan Son National Park is situated in Tan Son District, Phu Tho Province.
It is 33,687 hectares in total with the main part is 15,048 hectares and the bordering part covers 18.639 hectares.
It has the preserved biodiversity system.
According to the statistics, it has 1217 species of plants with 665 species of herbs, 300 species of edible plants, and vascular plants like oak, teak, and parashrea stellata.
Xuan Son stellata forest is evaluated as one of three national Parks with the highest biodiversity level in Vietnam, it has many hundreds year old trees with 2m in diameter and 30m in height.
It has 365 species of animals with 46 species recorded in Vietnam's book of endangered species and 18 species recorded in the World's book of endangered species. It also has Paramesotriton deloustali, very rare and valuable species.
Xuan Son has three mounts above 1000m including Voi,Ten and Can Mount. Its system of limestone caves is very diversified with many beautiful stalactites and stone pillars.
More than 30 caves of different sizes have been discovered like Lun, Lang, Na, Thien Nga caves or Doi (bats), Son Duong (cham ois), Chon Trang (ermines), Trang Tron (full moon), etc.
Lang is the biggest cave and longest deepened into Ten mountain, its arch is 20m tall at some points and 20m wide.
The system of waterfalls are constituted by very beautiful streams flowing down from the mountains including the waterfalls of Xoan, Kem - 99 levels, To Brothers, Nuoc Moc.
In the National Park, people of ethnic groups including Muong and Dao residing in Lang, Du, Lap Thang, Xoan, Ong can still maintain the customs and traditions with festivals, unique dancing and singing.
Xuan Son is a huge and spectacular natural landscape, an attracted destination to tourists.
Thanh Thuy Hot mineral water mine is located in La Phu and Bao Yen Commune, Thanh thuy district, Phu Tho Province, 40 kilometers away from Viet Tri city next to the expanded area of Hanoi.
It lies along Da River with the area of 300 ha.
Hot mineral water is at the depth of from 30 to 60 m, its heat ranges from 37 to 54 Celsius degrees.
The water has valuable elements especially Radon radiant that is good for the medical treatment and health recovery.
This is found in Vietnam for the first time It capacity is enough to supply visitors for long time with the 2100m3 /per day.
Phu tho has programmed Thanh Thuy tourism hot spring site with the projects of building the sites of healthcare and health recovery entertainment, conference...Now on holidays there are thousands of visitors to bathe in the site every day.
Ao Gioi Suoi Tien (God Pond - Fairy Stream) is located in Quan Khe commune, Ha Hoa district, Phu Tho province.
Suoi Tien originates from Na Mountain at the height of 1000m.
Flowing from the height, it makes a picturesque waterfall. It pours down into the area of deep, clean water or pebbles and colorful cobbles to make mysterious beauty.
Now there are about 10 big and small waterfalls with the specific characteristics of height, falling down point. The surrounding spots have been given very beautiful names like God Pond, Buddha Well, Green Chasm, Bottomless Cavern, Cloud waterfall, Fairy Cave, Wind waterfall, Pearl Lake.
Surrounding the stream are pebble field and blocks of marble with various shapes. They are given special names like Elephant-on-its-knee pedestals, Tiger-lying-in- wait pedestals, God gate, Fairy wing.
Ao Gioi Suoi Tien is about 10km away from Au Co Mothers Temple and 3km away from Van Hoi lagoon.
It is an ideal destination for visitors who like beholding natural beauty spots after visiting and burning incense atAu Co Mother’s Temple.
Located in Am Thuong and Yen Son Commune, Ha Hoa District, it covers water square of 300ha. Ao Chau outstands in an area of midland and hills. It has 99 arms deepening into a large area of hills of more than 1500 ha.
The water in the lagoon is always pure, blue and clean. Its average depth is from 8 to 10 meters and the deepest point is 15 meters.
The hills emerging in the middle of the big lagoon are grown with local trees like tea plants, palm-trees and especially hills of red ripe litchi in summer. They create a great painting of mountains and rivers.
The mountainous and hilly areas surrounding the lagoon have luxuriant plants that make poetic scenery.
Ao Chau lagoon has been programmed to b built into an ecotourism site with luxurious hotels, healthcare sites and entertainment resort with many games like sailing in the lagoon.
The lagoon is 70 km away from Viet Tri and tourists can have an enjoyable and interesting time here.
Located in Hien Luong Commune, Ha Hoa District, Phu Tho Province, the lagoon lies next to Van Hoi and Viet Cuong commune, Tran Yen District, Yen Bai Province.
The lagoon has a water surface of more than 200 ha, the depth of from 7 to 8 m, the deepest point of 20m.
It has the system of water open supply and drainage so it can always maintain a stable water level. The difference between the rainy and dry season is only 1.3 m.
The water in the lagoon is very clean and pure.
Surrounding it is the system of mountains hills and forests of Quan Khe, Ha Hoa district Phu Tho; Van Hoi and Viet Cuong commune,Tran Yen District Yen Bai Province. This creates a poetic landscape.
On the lagoon surface are 40 islands, the biggest one is 10ha. The rest are small ones ranging from 0.5 to 1 ha with some plant species like palm, tea trees, making a beautiful painting.
The of across - Asia highway of Hai Phong - Hanoi - Kunming (China) crosses is 700m away from the lagoon exit.
The distance between Viet Tri to Van Hoi lagoon is about 80 km that takes 2 hours by car.
The lagoon is 1 km away from Mother's Temple (Ha Hoa), 3 km from Ao Gioi Suoi Tien.
It has been programmed into a high quality health tourism site.
The waterfall of Cu Thang in Cu Thang Commune, Thanh Son District, Phu Tho provice is about 18 km away from Vang Town of Thanh Son district.
It is 10 m high cascading all year round from a stream full of water down to a huge plunge pool with limpid water.
The area around the cascade and along the stream running from the plunge pool is covered with luxuriant vegetation and pebble plains, forming magnificent scenery.
Cu Thang Waterfall presents itself as an ideal tourist destination to escape the heat of summer days.
Bach Hac or White Crane is a name that has long been used.
It is written in Linh Nam Chich Quai (a Collection of Strange Stories in Linh Nam) that: "there was in the ancient Phong Chau a big wide shade tree called Chien Dan on which white cranes built their nests, thus this area is named Bach Hac or White Crane": The region of Bach Hac Confluence is where three big rivers namely Thao, Da and Lo meet each other.
Located in a convenient position, Bach Hac was a great place of residence for the ancient Vietnamese people, since it had mountains, hills and plains. When the area was flooded,they moved to hills and mountains to make a living there and if the weather was good, they spead to the plains to cultivate rice.
Moreover, this area was chosen by Hung Kings for the establishment and construction of Van Lang State.
On this area still exist various legends of the time when Hung Kings founded Van Lang state such as the story of Heaven God (whose heel is still seen engraved on a stone on the edge of Bach Hac river) giving names to 100 children of Lac Long Quan, the legends of the fight between Son Tinh and Thuy Tinh, and of two brothers named Tho Lenh and Thach Khanh.
Bach Hac is also a place of various historical and cultural relics such as Tam Giang Pagoda, Bach Hac Communal House, Lang Dai Temple, Ha Than Shrine. Coming to Bach Hac, visitors can have a chance to enjoy a number of important festivals and events such as Bach Hac Regetta Festival, Glutinuous Rice Dumpling Contest, Wrestling Competition, etc. The name of each commune and village in Bach Hac is associated with one legend of Hung Kings time.
The land of Bach Hac Confluence has long been well-known for its charming waterways and liveliness. In the afternoon, the flaming sun sets down to Ba Vi Range amid the happy folksongs sung by fishermen who are catching fish in the river.
All these make Bach Hac a land of picturesque landscapes with its unique and distinct tangible and intangible cultural heritages an appealing point of arrival for visitors who come here to be fully satisfied.
Hills in the midland of Phu Tho, that look like close up-side-down bowls occupying thousands of hectares of land are all covered with palm trees, providing a picturesque and appealing landscape.
Lying under the shade of palm trees in summer breathing in the fragrance brought over by the wind, visitors could find no experience like this which is very stress-releasing and comfortable.
Anyone coming here would be impressed to look at the palm trees waving their canopies, which from a distance looks like a fearless army brandishing their swords to defend their beloved nation.
Like bamboos, palm trees have long been associated with the lives of agriculture-based Vietnamese people since the first days of their history.
Cottages with palm-leaf roof, conical peaked hats and raincoats made from the leaves of palm trees have long protected generations of Vietnamese people from hard weather conditions.
At present, Phu Tho provides major source of this material for the production of handicrafts and, more importantly is an ideal destination for those who come here on eco-tours, for relaxation and entertainment.
Phu Tho has long been famous for its tea planting farms covering over 12,000 hectares of hill area and produces up to 150,000 tones of fresh tender tea a year.
The province each year exports 10,000 tones of dried tender tea.
Those who have been to Phu Tho’s midland areas of Doan Hung, Thanh Ba, Ha Hoa, Cam Khe, Phu Ninh, etc. would never forget their green tea hills which look like layers of glutinous rice trays, featuring magnificent natural landscape.
Midland girls are very skillful in picking tender tea leaves smiling happily and singing folksongs, which reflects the tranquil life of a rural area.
It would be great to take sips of strong green tea which is a little bit bitter at first, but then leave a long lasting sweet after taste. It is difficult to tell the feeling of drinking the tea from the teapot of weather-beaten farmers in the tea area who will tell us many stories about the tea tree and legends of the national building era. It would also be very wonderful to enjoy a bowl of green tea by the elderly here avoiding the extreme heat of summer days.
The picturesque scenery of tea hills, famers' happiness and optimism in labour together the tea culture of Phu Tho have made the province a right place to go on eco-tours with various and exciting local cultural identities.
Place: Bach Hac Ward - Viet Tri city.
Time: 10th day of the third lunar month.
This festival is held on the river in commemoration of Bach Hac’s God of Soil ( God Tho Lenh), who saw off Saint Tan Vien when the latter visited Bach Hac.
Participating in the event are 4 giap (male teams) namely Thien Hac, Dong Nam, Than True and Bo Dau.
Each giap owns a boat painted differently: Thien Hac’s blue, Than True’s red, Dong Nam’s white and Bo Dau’s yellow.
Clothing, flags and oars must be of the same color with the boat. Each boat is rowed by 50 boatmen with a steering man, a flag bearer and a person who is in charge of beating a mo (a musical instrument made of wood in the shape of a bell) to conduct the boatmen.
Boats sail from the gate of the Bach Hac Communal House to Bach Hac Confluence. Afterwards, they are rowed backward to their starting point. On the way back, all boatmen stop at Chi Cat Temple.
When the first regatta reaches the finish line, a great and constant cheer goes up from the crowd of spectators.
The festival together with the relics of Tam Giang Pagoda and Temple and beautiful landscape of Bach Hac Confluence has attracted thousands of local and foreign tourists.
Place: Hlen Quan Commune,Tam Nong District, Phu Tho Province.
Time: 12th and 13th days of the first lunar month.
The first day of the festival is called festival announcing day (ngay cao hoi). In the morning of the day, ceremonial procession of altar and palanquin on which there are a throne and phet balls is led from Madam Thieu Hoa Temple to the communal house.
After the rituals comes the ceremony called troop reviewing ceremony.
The main festival day is on the 13th when people lead the procession of altar and palanquin to the communal house and hold incense-burning ceremony and other rituals there.
In the afternoon, the game of Phet which is the most festive part of the day is held. Males in village are divided into two teams. Each team is comprised of 50 to 60 members who are half naked in long pants tied to a red belt holding a stick curved at one end.
After the rituals at the altar, several elderly persons holding flags crossed over their heads review the two lines of players who hold up the phet sticks to make the letter A, then they are directed to the playing ground.
In the middle of the ground, there is a master of ceremony who stands next to a phet hole and reads phet recitals.
Then, he throws the phet ball into the hole. Next, the two persons from two teams stamp on the two sides of the hole ten times, then use the stick to pull out the ball.
The teams immediately charge each other fiercely. If anyone snatches the phet ball, hundreds of people chase him for the bail. The match is temporarily finished when one person takes the ball and goes beyond the boundary which is made of New Year’s tree hedge.
The second and third phet balls are then brought to the hole and the same ritual repeat.
There would be no prize for the winners. However, players believe that they would have a profitable and lucky year if they win in a game.
After three matches of phet playing, the master of ceremony makes rituals of processing the three phet balls placed on a tray at the altar.
Then, he carries the balls to the main festival area and throw the balls to three different directions flow of the river.
Once again, hundreds of people jump up trying to catch the ball, as they believe that if they get the balls, they would be lucky all year around.
At the end of the festival, villagers are in a procession of palanquin back from the communal house to the Thieu Hoa Temple. Leaving the festival, everyone gets home in good mood.
Place: Thanh Dinh Commune, Viet Tri City.
Time: 4th of the first lunar month.
Mr. and Mrs.Khiu Procession Festival is called a Crop Praying Festival.
Offerings include a chung cake (square cake) of 40 cm think, a branch of in-blossom peach, a sheaf of glutinous rice and a sheaf of non-glutinous rice which are placed evenly around a tray full of corns, beans, peanuts and sesames.
The palanquin is decorated with flowers of reed.
Playing the part of Mr.Khiu is a man between ages of 60 and 65. This man, whose wife is still alive and children are both boys and girls, should be perfectly healthy. He puts on blue ceremonial clothing with white pants, hats and mandarin's boots.
Mrs.Khiu is also played by a young strong full-parent man of around 12 and 17. This man wears the four-panel traditional dress with a black skirt, a conical hat, a wooden clog and a small flowery bag carrying 9 small phoenix-shaped betel leaves and 9 areca-nuts.
The festival begins with a palanquin procession of Mr.and Mrs.Khiu from the communal house to an area called Oa Nha Nit (woman’s genital organ in the other name).
In Oa Nha Nit, Mr.Khiu uses a square sticky rice cake symbolizing men’s genital organ to pound at the center area for three times.
There, Mr. and Mrs.Khiu throw square sticky rice cakes and five-fruit trays at the crowd. The more cakes people can grab, the more likelihood they have a son. And the more cereal they grab, the better crops they will produce.
Place: Tu Xa commune, Lam Thao district, Phu Tho provice.
Time: the night of the 11th and the whole day of 12th of the first lunar month.
Tro Tram Festival is one of the traditional festivals organized by the ancient Vietnamese with the fertility belief and a hope for bumper crops. Tro Tram Festival consists of three main parts:
Part one: The “Turning-off-the-light festival” takes place in the night-time of the 11h at Tro Shrine. The officiating priest gives a son a wooden object and a girl a tortoise - shell - shaped object, which both represents the male and female sex organs.
On hearing the priest saying linh Tinh Tinh Phoc” - the magic words, they have to hold the things up high and then poke into each other.
This ritual is conducted three times. Villagers believe that if in the darkness they could hit each other rightly then the year to come would be full of luck and prosperity.
Part two: Magic Rice procession lasts for one hour between 8 and 9.00 am. On the 12M of the first lunar month though in the previous evening, the incense-burner is brought from the shrine to the Tram Temple for sacrifices. In the next morning, the magic rice procession is carried out along the way through village's fields and to Tro Shrine.
Part three: There come the performances of four classes: scholars, farmers, workers and merchants.
Main performers are local farmers, carpenters, fishermen, weavers, teachers... Performances take place around the village and end in the yard of Tro Temple.
Tro Tram Festival reflects the wish and life of ancient Vietnamese residents along the sides of Red River. It is known as one of the most ancient festivals that are still handed down until today.
Place: Minh Nong commune, Viet Tri City, Phu Tho provice.
Time: 1st of the sixth lunar month.
The festival is dated back to the early days of Hung King's making of the nation.
Legend has it that realizing that the land on the both sides of the Red River was very fertile and full of wild rice; Hung King asked villagers to build dikes and open ditches in order to keep water for these fields and harvested the wild rice. Then he asked them to remove all wild rice and start to transplant rice seedlings.
Seeing that the villagers in Ma Lao Hill did not know how to plant rice, Hung King dismounted from his horse and performed all planting practices as a model for them.
Villagers then followed the instructions and worked diligently until noon. Both the king and his subjects rested on the high mound of land in the middle of the field.
Tich Dien praying area used to be built with laterite of 8 meters long, 7 meters wide and 1.3 meter high. It was surrounded by hemps and rattans.
On the pedestal in the center of the altar there was a tiger-faced statue that is 1.2 meter long and 0.3 meter high. Its pedestal was 1.2 meter in height,0.6 meter in length and 0.8 in width and characterized with an incense-burner surrounded by offerings. The other area was grown with grass and had an area of two bed mattresses.
Offerings for Tich Dien Festival include steamed rice with chicken, betel, areca-nut, alcohol, water. The sacrifice is conducted solemnly in a certain order praying for a favorable weather bumper crops and for a better life of people.
After all rituals are done, the officiating priest with a bunch of young paddy rice in his hands pulls up his pants, gets down to a field and transplants. It is an activity that puts an end to the festival.
Place: Dao Xa commune, Thanh Thuy district, Phu Tho provice.
Time: 27th, 28th and 29th of the first lunar month.
The festival has another name as the festival of praying month.
According to legend, Hung King granted Hung Hai (the 19th son of Lac Long Quan) who had merit in founding the land of Tam Giang 2 elephants on seeing him off to Song Nhi in Hai Duong province for the new governance duty.
Before leaving the land,Hung Hai took his two elephants to Dao Xa to make offering sacrifices to the gods. Not only Hung Hai but also the two elephants were so attached to Hung King that they did not want to go though they had to set off at the last minute.
The festival begins on the morning of the 27th. People prepare posters, flags, ceremonial decorations like swords, spears, umbrellas, etc. and offerings including three bunch of bananas, three bowls of troi (floating) cakes, three carps, rice wine. They then conduct all rituals for the procession of ancestral tablet and incense-burner from Tam Cong Temple to the communal house.
In the afternoon of the 27th, elephant procession is performed.
On the 28lh morning, feast and offerings are supposed to be brought to the communal house and left there until the 29th.
Sacrifices will be conducted on the 28th together with interesting games namely elephant dancing, cooking competition, cock fighting, tugging. The sculpture of two elephants is welcomed around the communal house.
The festival ends when the procession makes a complete round from the communal house to the temple.
Place: Dao Xa Commune, Thanh Thuy District, Phu Tho provice.
Time: the 10th of the seventh lunar month.
Dao Xa Regatta Festival takes place on the large Dao Di Nau Lagoon.
The festival was originally dedicated to the three water-nymphs. When General Ly Thuong Kiet stationed his troops in Dao Xa and trained his boatmen in preparation for the war against the Song there, the festival was expanded by 5 more days until the 15th of the sixth lunar month.
There are two boats in each competition: white boat (called the female) and red boat (the male).
Each boat is 25 meter long and sailed by 24 boatmen.
The rule is very simple. Each boat is supposed to row 3 rounds before flags and oars are raised.
Boatmen are supported and cheered by the crowd with shouts and beats of drums and gongs.
Dao Xa Regatta Festival is one of the festivals that beautify various features of Vietnam’s traditional culture.
Place: Chu Hoa and Hy Cuong communes, Viet Tri City, Phu Tho provice.
Time: 7th and 8th of the first lunar month.
Princess Procession Festival, or He Village Festival as the other name, depicts the legend of Saint Tan Vien bringing his bride, Ngoc Hoa princess, from Hung Temple to Tan Vien Mount.
Prior to the festival, Vi and Treo villages have to choose a young lady to play as the princess, who should be beautiful and charming. She should also be single, between ages of 13 and 18, and is full parented with both brother and sister.
The procession is conducted formally according to traditional rites and customs.
The princess is welcomed from Dinh Ca to Treo village (Hy Cuong commune) and then to Tan Mount along the Red River.
During the procession, there are lots of performances to entertain Ngoc Hoa Princess, these are called “Humorous games’:
Wedding customs including challenging wedding presents, bringing the bride home and choosing the son-in-law in the time of Hung King is, therefore, reflected very lively and obviously through the festival.
Place: Truc Phe village, Hung Hoa town, Tam Nong district, Phu Tho provice.
Time: 7th of the first lunar month
Legend has it that the two sisters of Ho Thien Huong and Ho Thien, the two female generals under the kingship of Tan Vien, had the great merits in the war against the Shu and then the Qin.
To commemorate the two generals and especially their victory feast to their troops and the general Thien Huong's relief of Lord Dinh Cong Tuan, people in the village of Truc Phe hold the festival of Day cake grinding.
The grinding mortar is made of bamboo and is 1 meter wide. It is stabilized by bamboo hem.
The pestle is made of timber or teakwood.
Sticky rice is chosen very carefully, and then cooked well before being grinded.
There are four people grinding at each mortar in which 2 people do the grinding and the other 2 do the shaping and cutting. The grinding takes about 15 or 20 minutes.
Each cake is between 15 and 20 centimeters in diameter; 5 centimeters high.
Cakes are brought to True Phe Communal House for contemplating and mark giving.
The prized cake will be worshipped in the house and the winner is believed to be lucky in the year to come.
Place: Tat Thang Commune, Thanh Son District, Phu Tho provice.
Time: in the 1st lunar month. Gongs are popular musical instruments in Muong’s festivals and holidays like the lunar New Year, village's festivals, wedding, funeral, etc.
The Gong is generally considered as a symbol of cultural features of Muong ethnic people. It's not only a kind of musical instrument but an emblem of wealth and power.
Moreover, the gong is a valuable dowry that parents give to their daughter on her wedding day.
The musical instrument often has the diameter ranging from 20 to 60 centimeters.
A single set consists of 6 gongs; whist the double one consists of 12.
They can be hand-held and hung on a frame when being performed.
Gong performances are carried out together with traditional songs such as: "Travelling" “Meeting for festivals”, "The colors of an amulet”, “Greeting”, “Toasting”.
Gongs are also performed with others instruments namely drums and sirens.
Playing gongs is considered to be highly artistic and the sound of gongs serves as background music for the singing and dancing of Muong ethnic people.
The Department of Phu Tho Culture, Sports and Tourism has, nowadays, been in charge of organizing Gong Performance Festivals.
Xoan singing is a unique cultural product of Phu Tho.
The art of Xoan recital which is closely connected to the legend of Hung King dated to the early days of national building.
Khuc Mon Dinh (singing at the door of communal house) is known as another name of Xoan singing. Performances take place in spring as an activity to welcome a new year.
The show is often organized in the communal house or village’s temple.
The show at communal houses of An Thai, Kim Duc, Phu Duc, Thet is on the first day of the lunar year.
From the 5th of lunar January, troupes from all the four villages have performing visits to the communal house of the village with whom they have sworn "brotherhood".
These teams perform from 5th of the first month till 10th of the third month in the lunar calendar.
A typical Xoan show must go through 3 well-established stages: ritual, dancing performance and festive singing.
In the ritual part, the singing involves the praise and praying performed in a ceremonial way at the communal house’s gate. They are meant to show people’s feelings and serve as words of praise of saints and gods.
In the second part, performances reflect the life of people. Therefore, the songs are often about the natural beauty or old stories.
Such a singing is comprised of 3 main parts: beginning, body and ending.
The last part is characterized with romantic performances of boys and girls singing back and forth.
Performers sing love songs accompanied with dances and games.
Xoan singing is not a mere singing practice, but known as a festival.
Xoan festival consists of various activities such as singing, asking for flowers, word-puzzle, dancing and many unique and interesting performances.
Words in Xoan songs are composed very carefully and full of art, using the both the quintessence of scholars and ordinaries.
Mo Ca; a rhythmical and attractive song about the love for labour; is the name of the last act in a Xoan recital.
Gheo singing is a kind of singing exchange between boys and girls, which is usually performed during the nights of spring and autumn festivals when the moon is bright.
Gheo singing takes place most in Phu Cuong and Nam Cuong villages in Thanh Uyen commune, Tam Nong district and Hung Nhi village in Hung Son commune, Thuc Luyen of Thanh Son district.
The name of Gheo singing differs in each area. It is called as “Nuoc Nghia singing”, "Brothers and Sisters singing” in Nam Cuong and Thuc Nhi respectively.
It is named as ”Brothers and Sisters singing'' because in each performance boys and girls call each other not by their names but just brothers and sisters.
Gheo singing begins in any household rather than in the communal house, after the sacrifices finishes.
Gheo singing have nothing related to praying and offerings because it is not a traditional religious and free singing such as back-and-forth singing, folksong contest, but Quan Ho singing.
Gheo singing is performed in 2 forms: singing on the meeting bridge and singing contest.
In the first form, as a rule, one female elder and 12 women or girls will be selected to practice and perform the singing with another 12 men or boys invited and led by one male elder.
Gheo singing is performed in couples.
They look into each others eyes to express their feelings during the performance so that they can share the rhythm of the singing.
Singing contest is held not for prizes but to make the performances more interesting.
There are 2 types of contest: lyrics and voice.
In the lyrics contest, performers are asked to sing all well-known songs; they will lose if they fail to remember the lyrics.
In the voice contest, they will lose if they can’t follow different voices of this kind of singing.
Gheo singing often takes place from dark until the next morning.
After performing, performers of the village will see all the guests off.
Place: Hung Lo commune, Viet Tri city, Phu Tho provice.
Time: from 9th to 13th of the third lunar month.
The commencement of the festival is marked by the ceremony of chicken offerings at the communal house in the village on the 9th.
All the offered chickens are then brought to the oldest man’s house and are subject to distribution amongst the village notables and the elderly on the completion of the ceremony the villagers prepare the palanquin at the communal house and rally to start the palanquin procession into Hung Temple.
This palanquin procession appeals to a group ranging from 200 to 400 people in gala attire, embroidered with patterns of dragons, unicorn, turtles and flamingo, blue cone hats, leggings and shoes. Standing out in the procession are four red-lacquered and gilded palanquins which have been elegantly and sophisticatedly carved.
The distance covered by the procession from Hung Lo to Hung Temple is as far as 9 kilometers. Festival goers therefore take some breaks along the way with lion dancing. At the T-junction named Hang, the whole procession groups would rest for one night before entering the temple on 10th of the month.
The formality and majesty of the procession, as matter of fact often create a center of attendance.
Place: Lang Suong temple, Trung Nghia commune, Thanh Thuy district, Phu Tho provice.
Time: The festival is regularly held at on two annual occasions,i.e lunar January 15th and October 25th.
On lunar January 15th when it is Saint Tan Vien’s birthday palanquins are carried to the bank of Da River from Lang Suong temple.
By the river bank, the officiating priest standing in front of the praying table on which offering tray of fruits are laid; burns incense and heads towards Tan Mountain to invite the saint and his Godmother named Ma Thi to participate in the festival.
The palanquins are then carried back to the temple.
Festivities include folk games such as cock-fighting, wrestling; card games, con (a ball of clothes) throwing and singing contest.
The other festival held on lunar October 25th is to commemorate the Death of Mau (goddess mother) when villagers bring water from Da River to the Temple.
The lunar October 24th night is the time to pray for the Goddess.
On lunar October 25th, a palanquin procession is carried out, starting from Lang Suong temple to Da River with the significance of welcoming Tan God on his way back to his mom.
A cow offering (cow barbecue) takes place on this day.
Villagers then enjoy a variety of games like: earthenware pots breaking, ducks catching in the pool, swinging games, human chess, dum singing contest Boi singing (a form of traditional drama) is held at night right in front of the temple.
Lang Suong festival has become one of the most prominent ones in the series of festivals in the Tan Vien Mountain area with its beautiful sights and sounds.
Built in Dao Xa commune, Thanh Thuy district, Dao Xa communal house is recognized as one of the national historical relics.
Built during the reign Due Nguyen (1674- 1675) of King Le Gia Tong, the communal house was designed in the shape of the Chinese letter of yi (meaning one), with 3- compartment halls and 2 annexes.
The communal house takes pride in 48 wooden pillars, the smallest of which has a diameter of 55 centimeters, while the cloister pillars have their sizes of about 40 centimeters in diameter.
The communal house measures 24 x 13.22 meters, making the overall area of 300 square meters. In the main hall is the altar designed with dragons carvings, all at the height of 2 meters above the floor. On top of it are four red lacquered and gilded windows, smoothly and sophisticatedly carved with images of four sacred animals and two dragons gazing at the moon.
Both sides of the altar are designed as the main praying area.
The house has 12 panels which were elegantly engraved.
On the roof of the building are the two dragons gazing at the moon, and each of the four corners is decorated with one lion’s whelp, while two sides of the roof was beautified with holy animals.
Dao Xa Communal House worships Hung Hai Cong (the 19th son of Lac Long Quan).
Built in Hung Lo commune, Viet Tri city, Phu Tho provice Hung Lo Communal House is also called Xom Communal House.
It was constructed under the reign of King Le Hy Tong (1697).
The communal house is located next to the village temple, forming the shape of letter er (two) in Chinese.
Hung Lo Communal House is actually a complex comprising two smaller worshipping temples in the front and a main building at the back. Between the two structures there is a dragon pavilion with the gong and drum chambers on both sides.
In detail, the front worshipping houses have 5 compartments and two annexes.
The main hall also has 5 wooden-floored compartments.
The ancient roofs stand out with high and bending corners.
Hung Lo Communal House is renowned for its impressive worshipping tools and marvelous carvings reflecting folk cultural values like the carvings of King Dinh Tien Hoang in his maneuver game with red flags or Burying in the dragon's set of teeth and Wrestling.
Located in Lau Thuong village, Trung Vuong commune, Viet Tri city, Phu Tho provice Lau Thuong Communal House is a place of worship to four tutelary Gods namely: God of Tan Vien Mountain, two (Queen) Trung Sisters and Ly Hong Lien, who did her credits of teaching people how to read and write, how to cultivate mulberry and breed silkworm.
The communal house of Lau Thuong was constructed in the 17th century, designed in the shape of letter Ding in Chinese transcription. The house was built in a large area including 5 compartments and two annexes of the front hall and 2 compartments of the apse, measuring 28 meters and 22 meters in width. There exist 6 rows of wooden pillars, making a total of 60. The diameters of a normal column and a small one are 0.75 meter and 0.56 meter respectively making the building one of the most meticulous ones in Phu Tho Province.
The house stills preserves 12 folk sculpture carvings, depicting the image of dragon “Quan Long Hoi Tu” (Dragons in festival), "Long Ly Quy Phuong” (four sacred animals: dragon-unicorn-tortoise-phoenix), "Luong Long chau nguyet” (Two dragons gazing at the moon).
The carving and intaglio techniques must have been of distinguished painstakingness and refinery.
Some ancient relics kept in Lau Thuong Communal House include the panel with big words, pairs of wooden panels on which are inscribed parallel sentences, 4 thrones, 4 trays and 5 ancient incense-burners made of terra-cotta.
Sited in An Thai hamlet, Viet Tri city, Phu Tho province, An Thai communal house is 10 kilometers from the city center towards the south east and 5 kilometers from Hung temple towards the north west.
Being constructed from the Hau Le’s dynasty, at the end of the 17th century and in the beginning of the 18th century, the house had once been restored from Nguyen dynasty.
The house performing religious services to Hung Kings was structured in the shape of the letter Yi (in Chinese alphabet), consisting of a hall, 2 compartments and 3 annexes. The measurement is 18.4m in length and 13m in width.
The framework was like the bowels of a boat, following the rule of ancient architects, namely “thuong thu ha thach" (all supporting columns are bundled at the top, creating a stable structure).
The house has four rows of wooden pillars, which make up a total of 36 ones, including four major ones, 12 supporting and 20 cloisters’.
The four roofs create four intersectional angles, and bend upward in four tops.
The carvings inside were of great elegance, depicting “Dragon family” “Four sacred animals ".
The carving techniques in use are: intaglio or incise carvings and engraving typical of Hau Le dynasty An Thai communal house still presereves some ancient relics like: three thrones made in the eighteenth century, three pairs of wood panels, on which are inscribed parallel sentences, three hats of the Pacifying style, three incense burners and many other architectural, wooden sculptures of great value, Especially, An Thai has the traditional xoan festival.
The communal house was recognized as a national cultural heritage in 2006.
The relics are in Bach Hac commune, Viet Tri city, Phu Tho Province.
The complex of pagoda and temple is located in a perfect site, by the river.
Tam Giang Temple was built to worship Tho Lenh and Thach Khanh, who had found valuable medical treatments.
On growing up, both men joined the army of Hung Due Vuong, fighting against the enemy, and they were assigned to be in charge of the navy.
After their death, they were honoured to be Bach Hac River Gods, who later helped Tran army (under the leadership of Lord Tran Nhat Duat) in the wars against the foreign invaders.
Tran Nhat Duat was later awarded with Bach Hac prefecture and his statue was carved and worshipped beside those of Lord Thanh Hac - Tho Lenh Dai Vuong.
Both the temple and pagoda have been restored and renovated with gilt pillars, beams and wood panels.
The architecture of the altar and statues are of significant artistic values.
A huge sculpture picture depicting the scenery of some pagodas in Vietnam add to the beauty of the site and its attraction.
The temple is positioned at Hien Quan commune, Tam Nong district, Phu Tho province.
According to the legend; Hien Quan temple was built in early years, possibly the first years AD, and has gone under restoration several times.
Hien Quan temple is a place of worship to Thieu Hoa, a female general in Trung sisters' army who had made immense contribution to the struggle against To Dinh - the Chinese governor.
It is made up with two parts: the front worship hall and the apse. In detail, the front worshipping chamber measures 12 meters x 4.3 meters, the major pillars is 2.8 meters high, with the diameter of 0.35 meter. The main doorway measures 1.8 meters in height, 2.3 meters in width, and two side doors are 1.8 meters high and 0.9 meter wide.
The apse is 9.6 meters long, 4.6 meters wide, and the diameter of the column, on which the four sacred animals are carved, is also 0.35 meter.
The Communal House still stocks some valuable artifacts like palanquin which requires 8 people to carry on; poles, flags, phet sticks, phet balls and altar boards.
A prominent feature of the temple is traditional phet festival, an illuminating example of the national sportsmanship.
The shrine hall of Thieu Hoa is an addition to the main structure of the temple.
Phuc Khanh pagoda (or Hien Ouan pagoda) is situated in Hien Ouan commune, Tam Nong district, Phu Tho provice.
The time of construction of this pagoda has not been acknowledged, though, it went under restoration in 1964, 1978 and 1982.
The architecture of the pagoda follows the Noi cong ngoai quoc style; which means the inside area designed in the shape of the Chinese letter gong, and the outside border was designed like the shape of guo. The house comprises a bell tower front worship hall, main praying hall, corridor and ancestors worship hall.
Built on a large area of land, the building was beautifully decorated with the sets of carvings: dragon- unicorn-tortoise-phoenix, apricot-lotus-chrysanthemum-ivory bamboo.
The pagoda worships Buddhas, with a wide range of ancient statues dating from the 17th century. It also worships Thieu Hoa, a female general in Trung Sisters’ army.
Being Sited in Hien Quan commune, Tam Nong district, Phu Tho Province.
the house is a place of worship to 4 heroes namely Son Thong, Thien Cuong, Hac Long, Ho Lan who had made great contribution to the war to protect the land and borders of Hung Kings against Thuc army.
The house has the shape of the Chinese letter ding and consists of two blocks: the Great Hall and the apse.
The present Great Hall was constructed in 1993 with 5 compartments, each has 3 doors. The main doorway measures 2.7 meters in height, 3.3 meters in width while two side doors measure 2.1 meters in height and 1.6 meters in width.
Pairs of wood panels with letters Inscribed were hung above the doors.
The top roof of the house was adorned with two dragons gazing at the moon.
The 2-compartment apse has two annexes, with three rows of pillars, the main one of which measures 3.3 meters and the smaller ones are 2.9 meters high.
On the ceiling joists are other images of dragons serving the moon.
The house still keeps the set of high desks, measuring 2.2 meters. The set comprises 3 layers, decorated with lotus, banyan leaves and gorgeous strings of Chrysanthemum, expressing the arts of Hau Le dynasty in the 18th century.
It can be said that the constructions of Hien Quan temple and pagoda together with Phet festival deserves to be an attractive tourist destination.
Phung Nguyen is in Kinh Ke hamlet Lam Thao district, the relics was discovered in 1959.
Phung Nguyen culture; also called Phung Nguyen relics have marked the beginning of Dong Son culture, in the period right before Hung Kings.
The relics date from the prehistory of metalworking, about 3000 years ago.
A number of ancient relics have been excavated; the majority of them are stone tools, which have proven the skillful stone manipulation techniques. These include stone tools, jewelries like bracelets, ear rings, and precious nephrite beads and long, thin stone sticks.
Besides, there are ceramic wares (patterns and flowered trays) together with lots of rice grains, presenting that their owners were employed in agriculture.
Phung Nguyen culture has inspired the blooming of Dong Don culture, and has also been a noteworthy scientific proof for the existence of a culture closely related to the arising of Van Lang State.
Located in Tu Xa hamlet, Lam Thao district, Phu Tho provice, the relics sites was discovered 1961. It was considered to be so typical that a culture was named after this relics.
This archeological relic has been nationally recognized, and was excavated 1972.
The excavation results have proven that this used to be the habitat of Go Mun people, and the burial site of Dong Son people.
The relics found includes the track of cooking places, holes where posts had once been put, ceramics and bronze wares.
The relics also consist of household wares and bronze weapons: javelims, arrows, spears, axes and diverse chi naware like bowls, pots and jugs, jars, etc.
Go Mun relics are typical representation of Bronze Age in Vietnam.
Being situated in Lang Ca, Tho Son commune, Viet Tri city, Phu Tho province, and had been discovered in 1959, the relics has been nationally recognized.
Archeological findings have revealed that this used to be the habitat, and then the burial site of old Viet people in Hung Kings' time.
The relics dated from the 2nd century BC to the 2nd century AD.
A number of 315 tombs have been discovered; relics comprise ‘Ancient Duong dynasty' (Chinese) ceramics, bronze labour tools, bronze moulds, and pouring pots.
The relic site have become significant in scientific and historic research on Van Lang capital under the reigns of Hung Kings.
Situated in Thanh Dinh commune, Viet Tri city; Phu Tho province, the relic was first discovered in 1960 and called Thanh Dinh bronze relics, parts of Dong Son culture.
The relics were later excavated in 1994 and 2003, revealing the habitat and burial site of ancient Viet people.
The relics unearthed consists of stone tools, axes, graters and ear rings, together with ceramic wares like pots and jars..., animal fangs, and bronze weapons: battle axes, daggers, spears., and bronze tools, and wind instruments, drums, small bells and tintinnabulum.
Go De archaeological relics containing of diverse tools, conveying the development of ancient Viet indigenous civilizations of Van Lang State.
Boasting a long history, Phu Tho is renowned as the cradle of Vietnam civilization; thus, Phu Tho people have been restoring and developing traditions and typical features of Vietnamese people.
The people here are famous for their creativeness, their perseverance in struggling, their kind-heartedness and artistic souls.
Craft villages of Phu Tho province are illuminating evidence for the observation.
Phu Tho's small industrial and handicrafts production have taken pride in their long history of development.
Perhaps, the traditional handicrafts are not highly efficient but these indigenous products create a considerably typical image for Phu Tho people.
Along the national highway numbered 32 by Hong riven tourists would arrive at Phu Lac, a mountainous village of Cam Khe district, Phu Tho provice.
It is a great chance to sink in a unique world of traditional bamboo charcoal handicrafts, ranging from sophisticated glasses, natural vases, and lovely coffee spoons to delicate blinds, and fragrant orchid baskets.
Bamboo charcoal with artistic beauty has become invaluable for filtering water and deodorizing, which are of great benefits for human health and the environment.
Bamboo charcoal products are of popularity among consumers in developed countries including Japan, South Korea, and China as they are capable of absorbing the harmful substance in the air and in water.
Bamboo charcoal is made from burning bamboo trees, with great care and lots of skills because the ending products may be burnt over into ash or otherwise into coal during a shorter period than required.
Temperature needs to be adjusted to harden and widen the surface of charcoal like iron.
However hard the job sounds, charcoal production of Phu Lac (Cam Khe) enjoys its prestige on the market share as a results of its superior quality.
Although it is not as hectic as other traditional craft villages in Hong River delta region.
Do Xuyen has become a traditional craft village with unique products and its distinctive quietness.
The origin of the village’s bamboo weaving occupation is not acknowledged, though, one cannot deny that it has helped Do Xuyen people survive from a variety of flooding seasons and become an important part-time job for villagers.
The villages products are very simple and hardly needs any investment but skillful hands. The low-profit production has to some certain extent presented the prestige villagers' culture and life in the competitiveness of market mechanism.
The major manufactured goods of Do Xuyen village is bamboo fiberboard for construction with various designs, meeting customers' needs: ceiling fiberboard, measuring 1 meter x 3 meters, or 1 meter x 4 meters, or bamboo containers of varied sizes and reasonable prices.
Do Xuyen can be named as a Bamboo mat village because its bamboo products are widely sold and have created financial resources for villagers.
Furthermore, another typical product is Mam Chap still in existence in spite of the market mechanism.
Nowadays, the occupation of chap bamboo production has witnessed great development up to now, thanks to the investment by Hon Ngoc Vien Dong Ltd., Company the products of Do Xuyen village including bamboo dishes, bowls, and chopsticks have been exported to foreign markets, which is of an immense support for Do Xuyen people to restore the traditional occupation and improve their life.
Being famous nationwide as the home of palm trees, Phu Tho has inevitably develops the conical hat occupation, which is of small-scale, though.
Unlike conical hats of Chuong village in Ha Tay province, Phu Tho conical hats’ most recognizable feature is their simplicity harmonious lines, durableness and reasonable price.
A wide range of villages in Phu Tho are involved in hat production occupation; among them, there arise some prominent ones including Son Nga, Sai Nga, Thanh Nga, Dong Phu and Phu Khe.
The oldest craft village is Son Nga; however; its production of cone hats has now diminished as a result of their low cost-effectiveness.
Sai Nga is comparatively the biggest conical hat producers in the region in recent decades. The village has become a large workshop bustling all day with manufacturing processes of leaf cutting, ironing, designing and hat sewing.
A good hat is defined as the one with beautiful and even sewing lines and smooth surface.
Interestingly the most beautiful one has a verse of romantic poem, or a picture placed in between two layers of thin leaves.
Have you ever stopped in a small shop in roadside to sip a cup of tea on a freezing winter day and noticed the use of a handicraft product of Viet Nam countryside to keep warm for the cup of tea?
It is U Am - traditional teapot warm keeper, which may be considered as the product only for nostalgic people. In modern life, there are many electrical appliances but the teapot warm keeper have been conventionally used in many Vietnamese families and become a favorite souvenir for foreign tourists.
Son Vy a small village of Lam Thao district, Phu Tho province is native land of the unique product.
The occupation of producing teapot warm keepers has expanded in Son Vy Village for more than 100 years, despite of ups and downs in social development.
Villagers have skillfully and artistically created the teapot warm keeper with an exceptional design.
Each teapot warm keeper has turned out to be a familiar utensil of each family throughout the year.
Son Vy’teapot warm keeper was awarded silver medal in the National Handicrafts And Fine Arts Products Fair.
If more efforts are invested in improving its decoration and design, the cost effectiveness of Son Vy teapot warm keepers will be considerably increased, which are a considerable stimulation for the development of traditional craft village.
Doan Ket Hamlet of Hung Lo commune, Phu Ninh district has been well-known for processing vermicelli, rice noodle and rice sheets for hundreds of years.
The hamlet's products have established their brand name and won customers’ trust with their high quality.
For years, the craft village has been in humble and tenacious existence, surprising visitors with the bustling working environment of grinding workshops and many generations of Hung Lo people have grown up with the occupation.
Production of glass noodle and rice noodle hardly requires huge investment so any family can run the business.
Machinery has now replaced the manual manufacturing process, which was in use for decades. A household can now produce 200-300 kilograms per day, helping Hung Lo commune to supply dozens of tons of dried foods such as vermicelli, noodle and rice paper and to market on a daily basis.
Minh Duc Carpentry Village is located in Thanh Uyen commune of Tam Nong district, Phu Tho provice.
The foremost products of the village are commonly-known furniture of beds, cupboards, wardrobes.
Despite of their unpretentious appearance and design, the products have enjoyed popularity because of high quality which satisfy customers’ needs. However; that does not necessarily mean Minh Duc carpentry is without typical splendor.
The origins of carpentry occupation in the village are not known, though; it has become the major of all villagers, earning an annual income of tens of billions of VNDs.
Minh Duc wooden products have widespread to every corner of the nation from rural to urban areas, though, not every user knows its origin.
Placing the trade mark on each product has been all villagers’ desire.
One interesting way to reach a new land and new culture is to enjoy foods there.
The idea is always right because gastronomy is cultural characteristics of each region.
Phu Tho, the ancestor’s land, will serve friends and guests from every corner of country with its special-but- popular dishes.
Lang: habitat living is wide, deep and strong current rivers.
The fishes live in the bed of the river and their food is small animals.
They only appear on the water surface when they are grown-up so fishermen can catch big fish of few kilos to dozens of kilos.
Lang fish is the best tasty catfish.
In the three rivers junction of Viet Tri, there is Anh Vu fish which is considered the rarest river fish.
Anh Vu fish also live in river bed eating mosses on stones. They shelter in caves during the summer time and go out in autumn and winter seasons.
So Anh Vu fish can be caught only in chilled and misty days.
In the feudal period, Anh Vu fish were dedicated to kings only.
Chay fish live in a section of Thao River of Thanh Ba district.
The fish has two delicious spawns.
Connoisseurs don’t hesitate to choose Chay fish for their meals.
In recent years, in Viet Tri city there have been some restaurants serving these fishes.
The most well-known and well- established one is Quan Ca Bo Song (Riverside Fish Restaurant) and following by Quan Ca Bach Hac (Bach Hac Fish Restaurant) and some others.
In recent years, Banh Tai (Tai Cake), a special snack of Phu Tho town ship has regained its reputation. Tai Cake is used in wedding and parties as substituting rice.
Tai Cake has been presented and become a nosh of people of Hanoi and many regions nationwide.
The cake cannot last longer than a day, therefore it requires great care.
Phu Tho Tai Cake has been made by Phu Tho village for long time and called Hon Cake.
The cake is shaped like an ear made from rice powder filled with pork. In fact, the recipe and tools are not too complicated but not everyone can succeed.
Like in the old tome, choosing what rice for making cake is a decisive factor to the taste of the cake. Rice must be soft and glutinous.
After being rinsed, rice is soaked into cold water for a period ranging from two hours to half of a day.
Then rice is ground into powder and made into pieces, which requires the cake makers to use his, or her strength to ensure absolute mixture After that, the powder pieces will be ground in a mortar, and modeled with hand (without any mould).
Skillful people can ensure cakes of same shape, like a thin ear, with pork in the middle.
In the next stage, cake are steamed for 30-60 minutes.
During the process, it is recommended not to make the powder curdle.
Tai Cake is the most delicious on being served hot.
Eating Tai Cake we cannot us spoon or folk but just by hands or a piece of banana leaf. It is the best way you can enjoy the taste of cake completely. It is well blended among glutinous, sweet taste and good smell.
Also being cooked into the 7 dishes like other regions, but Viet Tri Dog Meat has its own taste thanks to professional cooking.
Choosing the meat ingredient plays an important part, omitting the use of commercial fed dogs; dogs raised by mountainous minority people are favorable. Preparing process and using spices are secrets handed over generation to generation within family.
After enjoying dishes, I just can describe as follows: the meat is soft, color is nice. Sausages and grilled meat have good smell and soft.
And dish of steamed dog legs has unfor-gettable taste and smell.
Last dish o stewed bones with green papaya is really a specialty of the midland region.
Viet Tri’ people take pride in their popular gastronomy. And I am sure that if you once visit Viet Tri you would be offered the delicious and special dishes.
Doan Ket Road is considered a center of Viet Tri Dog Meat with about 20 restaurants serving the dishes.
The restaurants have existed for many years but still in simple decoration. The restaurant owners here confirm that well-decorated compartments and well-designed tables are unsuitable for enjoying Viet Tri Dog Meat dishes.
Melientha suavis has been listed in Vietnam Red Book, and the most valuable vegetables among 300 edible ones in Xuan Son National Park.
Having favourable conditions of altitude, humidity and soil, Xuan Son National Park enjoys the biggest number of natural grown melientha suavis in Vietnam.
Melientha suavis is not only important in ecological diversity but also a delicious vegetable for human beings.
The top, leaves, flowers can be cooked in soup, while ripe fruits is edible.
The plants have economic values, medical usages, and also environment significance, because they can last hundreds of years, playing an essential role in reforestation procedure of the National Park.
Melientha suavis can be grown from seeds, or roots and introduced between and among reforested plants or spread between fruiting plants.
The plant is now scattered among other fruiting trees in Xuan Son National Park and neighboring villages.
It is known that the all three regions of Vietnam share a common feature, i.e. possessing delicious grapefruit breeds.
Phuc Trach Pomelo is a specialty of sunny and windy Central region, while Nam Roi Pomelo is grown in fertilize land of South region, and Doan Hung pomelo planted in Doan Hung district of Phu Tho province is quintessence of midland area.
Doan Hung Pomelo also called "Phu Doan Pomelo" is well known with its special characteristics of small size; juiciness, sweet and soft taste and thin skin.
Today Doan Hung district boasts more pomelo breeds such as Bang Luan grape-fruit characterized by big size and yellow skin, hybrid plumose with big size and sour taste; La Hoang pomelo; and Suu pomelo is a rare breed and the first option of connoisseurs.
Perhaps, what makes Doan Hung pomelo special is its extraordinary fragrance.
During Tet holiday the fragrance of Doan Hung grape-fruit displayed in ancestors' altar can inspire a cozy family atmosphere.
Moreover, the pomelo planting has been improving people living standard. Each fruit sent to every corner of the country represents the heart and soul of pomelo growers.
So Doan Hung Pomelo has a unique taste of simplicity but specialty.
Hong Hac (Hac Persimmon), a specialty of the ancestor land, was famous for being ranked in the first of five kinds of rare fruits dedicated to kings long ago.
Hong Hac is a pride of the ancestor land's people.
So far, many persimmon gardens in Viet Tri have life-size and hundred-year-old plants.
Unlike other persimmon, Hong Hac are of big size, squares shape, crispiness and sweet taste without seeds.
Newly-picked Hong Hac have first to be soaked in glazed terra-cotta jars with water taken from a stone well in Tien Cat Viet Tri city for three days to make them sweeter and crispier and more yellow.
Hong Hac is simple and natural as manner of the locals.
Cherishing a persimmon and peeling it with a sharp knife, one can feel the sweet fragrance, and elegant taste that seems to inspire the soul.
The freshness, crispiness and sweetness lasts for long time, leaving unforgettable pleasure.
Enjoying Hong Hac in the mid-Autumn party under the moonlight night is a wonderful and remarkable moment.
Among dozens of tea products, Phu Tho people have choosen a simple and natural drink to serve friends and guests. It is Fresh Green Tea.
Talking about the fresh and tonic drink, everyone may suppose it was simply processed.
What you only need to do is to choose some dozens of fresh tea leaves rinsed in water and dip into in to a jar with hot water, and serve after 20 or 30 minutes.
It is right but not enough for the simple but elegant drink.
Observing the way of enjoying fresh green tea of people here, we can under-stand the “tradition” of the gastronomy.
Choosing the tea plant for fresh green tea drink must be done with care.
To ensure the fine color and scent and sweet-harsh taste, you should choose tea plants growing in a hustle with others plants in forests.
The feet of trees are rough and as big as a house column, and leaves are sometimes too high to be picked.
If you like harsh taste, you should choose the trees growing in areas of sunlight. While, if you like sweet taste, the trees under shadow is the option.
The best tea leaves are yellowish, with stable stems.
Water making the fresh green tea is also selected proper resource.
There is something mysterious, each village has only one water source for making tea. It is called Gieng Que (homeland well).
The fresh green tea connoisseurs use terra-cotta kettles to cooking tealeaves and cork the spout to avoid overflowing quintessence.
Sipping fresh green tea while chatting with friends is to ease the thirst during hard-working days, to feel home when being homesick and make the sweet-and-harsh taste in our memory forever.
Hong Ngoc II Hotel
Address: 938 Hung Vuong Avenue, Tho Son ward, Viet Tri city, Phu Tho province.
Tel: 0210.3862026
Conveniently located on Hung Vuong avenue, Hong Ngoc II Hotel takes pride in 100 rooms equipped with 182 comfortable beds and the best facilities. Services such as massages, taxi, Karaoke, Asian and Western food, etc. are offered at the hotel.
Hoang Long Hotel
Address: 2454 Hung Vuong Avenue, Tho Son ward, Viet Tri city, Phu Tho province.
Tel: 0210 3952410
Also situated on Hung Vuong Avenue, Hoang Long Hotel has become one of the finest two-star hotels in Phu Tho with a total of 40 rooms, including 67 comfortable beds. The hotel also provides convenient services such as: massages, Karaoke, etc. A variety of food, from Western to Asian is served at four dining rooms which can accommodate 600 people.
Ha Noi Hotel
Address: 2191 Hung Vuong Avenue, Gia Cam ward, Viet Tri city, Phu Tho province.
Tel: 0210 3849950
Ha Noi Hotel has diversified rooms with full modern facilities: 33 well - equipped rooms with a total of 57 beds; 2 spacious dining rooms consisting of 250 seats and one meeting room for 150 guests.
Sinh Thai Hotel:
Address: Block 2, Van Co ward, Viet Tri city, Phu Tho province.
Tel: 0210 3857324
Covering a total area of 13,000square meters, Sinh Thai Hotel is a perfect site for relaxation with 30 large bedrooms providing 72 enjoyable beds. The hotel also boasts a large swimming pool, tennis - court, ecological lake for fishing and relaxing. Western and Asian food are available.
Cau Tay Hotel:
Address: Block 4, Van Phu ward, Viet Tri city, Phu Tho province.
Tel: 0210 3954099
Sited in a total area of 2.000 square meters, Cau Tay Hotel features 30 spacious bedrooms set with 55 pleasant beds. The hotel also provides massages services. 70 seats in two dining rooms are available with high quality Asian and Western food.
Huong Giang Hotel
Add: Block 4, Van Phu, Viet Tri city, Phu Tho province.
Tel.: (84-210) 3952 784
located in a total area of 10,000 square meters, Huong Giang hotel is well - equipped with 75 magnificent rooms and 135 pleasant beds. A hall and a dining room are capable of housing 250 people. It is also convenient for guests to enjoy messages services and taxi.
Bao Chau Hotel
Add: Group 1A, block 1, Van Co ward, Viet Tri city, Phu Tho province.
Tel.: (84-210) 3954919
Covering a total area of 1000 square meters, Bao Chau hotel consists of 31 spacious rooms featuring 34 comfortable beds. A huge dining room and hall are spacious enough for 200 guests. Massages services are available.
Bai Bang Hotel
Add: Phong Chau town, Phu Ninh district, Phu Tho province.
Tel: (84-210) 3829351
Situated in an area of 56,000 square meters, Bai Bang hotel is one of the finest two - star hotels in Phu Tho. It is a perfect 55-room hote with a total of 100 comfortable beds. 4 dining rooms are capable of housing 500 people.
Significantly, the hotel has separated villa satisfying the needs of relaxation for large family.
BAPACO Hotel
Add: Phong Chau town, Phu Ninh district, Phu Tho province.
Tel: (84-210) 3829023
Set in a large area of 4000 square meters, BAPACO Hotel comprises 33 rooms with 46 beds. The dining room and meeting room can serve a total of 200 guests, and a high standard swimming pool is in use.
Hong Ngoc Hotel
Add: 1482 Hung Vuong Avenue, Gia Cam ward, Viet Tri city; Phu Tho province.
Tel: (84-210) 3829023
Hong Ngoc Hotel locates in a total area of 2000 square meters in the heart of Viet Tri city.
Being one of the most comfortable two - star hotels in Phu Tho, the six-storey hotel serves 75 rooms featured by 145 beds. Massages and taxi service are available.
Khanh Ly Hotel
Add: Group 33, Thanh Binh road, Thanh Mieu ward, Viet Tri city, Phu Tho province.
Tel: (84-210) 3912588
The 7-floor hotel has been furnished with 22 spacious rooms and 41 beds. The hotel's two large dining rooms can accommodate 150 people. Specially, guests can enjoy music, tea and coffee as well as city overview on the 7th floor.
Phuong Nam Hotel
Address: 1498 Hung Vuong Avenue, Gia Cam ward, Viet Tri city, Phu Tho province.
Tel: (84-210) 3845125
Covering a total area of 4590 square meters, Phuong Nam hotel takes pride in 39 bedrooms including 76 beds. A dining room and meeting room can lodge a group of 600 people. A variety of food, from Western to Asian is served. Massages services are of great convenience.
HoBiCo Hotel
Address: Group 4, Van Phu ward, Viet Tri city, Phu Tho province.
Tel: (84-210) 3954089
The hotel consists of 22 large rooms furnished with 49 beds. Especially, the hotel's house on stilts can take in 200 guests.
Located in a private location, the hotel can obviously ensure the relaxing and peaceful environment for guests.
Dao Ngoc Hotel
Address: Thao River town, Cam Khe district, Phu Tho province.
Tel: (84-210) 3467829
Spreading over a total area of 3200 square meters. Dao Ngoc hotel provides 30 bedrooms supplying 45 beds. Massages service is available. The hotel’s four large dining rooms can accommodate 400 guests with a variety of Western and Asian food.
Minh Ngoc Hotel
Address: Group 1, Van Phu commune, Viet Tri city, Phu Tho province.
Tel: (84-210) 3860868
The hotel features 20 rooms with 35 comfortable beds. It also provides massages services and taxi.
A Dong Hotel
Address: Group 1, Van Phu ward, Viet Tri city, Phu Tho province.
Tel: (84-210) 3857279
The hotel includes 21 rooms with a total of 35 beds; it also provides massages services and taxi.
Lo River Hotel
Address: Tran Phu Street, Gia Cam ward, Viet Tri city, Phu Tho province.
Tel: (84-210) 3843468/3846245
Labour Union Plaza Hotel
Address: 1594 Hung Vuong Avenue, Gia Cam ward, Viet Tri city, Phu Tho province.
Tel: (84-210) 3856567/3810888
The hotel was built with 11 rooms. It is perfect hotel for the guests to join music clubs or enjoy coffee in an extravagant and relaxing atmosphere.
Anh Dao Hotel
Address: Group 3, Km 5, Ha Loc commune, Phu Tho town, Phu Tho province.
Tel: (84-210) 3760204/3760217
Making up an area of 5000 square meters, Anh Dao hotel provides 45 bed rooms consisting of 62 comfortable beds. The hotel’s dining room and meeting room can host 160 people. Massages services are available.
Thien Thanh Hotel
Address: Thanh Son town, Thanh Son district, Phu Tho province.
Tel: (84-210) 3611909
Making up an area of 5000 square meters, The hotel possesses 38 rooms featuring 49 comfortable beds. 4 dining rooms can accommodate 250 people. Guests are welcome to enjoy natural views and fresh air; typical of mountainous area.
Thuy Tien Hotel
Address: Group 2, Van Phu commune, Phu Tho town, Phu Tho province.
Tel: 0210.3210656
Tuan Hai Hotel
Address: Group 8, Phu Loc commune, Phu Tho town, Phu Tho province.
Tel: 0210.3865021
Hoa Nam Hotel
Address: 64, Bach Hac ward, Viet Tri city, Phu Tho province.
Tel: 0210.3861333
Huong Rung Hotel
Address: 8, Phu An street, Phong Chau ward, Phu Tho town, Phu Tho provinces.
Tel: 0210 3861333
Luu Thuy Hotel
Address: 114, Phu An street, Phong Chau ward, Phu Tho town, Phu Tho province.
Tel: 0210 3820384
Song Vang Hotel
Address: Thanh Son town, Thanh Son district, Phu Tho province.
Tel: 0210 3873378
Hai Nam Hotel
Address: 19/5 Bridge Group, Thuc Luyen commune, Thanh Son district, Phu Tho province.
Tel: 0210 3611117
Van Xuan Hotel
Address: Group 12, Co Tiet commune, Tam Nong district, Phu Tho province.
Tel: 0210 3794034
An Binh Guest House
Address: Group 8, Hy Cuong commune, Viet Tri city, Phu Tho province.
Tel: 0210 2211553
Quynh Trang Guest House
Address: Group 6, Ha Hoa town; Ha Hoa district, Phu Tho province.
Tel: 0915.614202
Tho Chinh Guest House
Address: Group 8, Ha Hoa town, Ha Hoa district, Phu Tho province.
Tel: 0915.883300
Anh Duc Guest House
Address: Administration area, Dau Lo, Doan Hung town, Doan Hung district, Phu Tho province.
Tel: 0210 3880558
A Dam Guest House
Address: Cau Dat area, Thanh Son town, Thanh Son district, Phu Tho province.
Tel: 0210 3873998
Nam Cuong Guest House
Address: Tan Tien area, Doan Hung town, Doan Hung district, Phu Tho province.
Tel: 0210 3881915
Ancient Hue Guest House
Address: Group 7, Thanh Minh commune, Phu Tho town, Phu Tho province.
Tel: 0210 6212104
Song Thao Guest House
Address: La Phu commune, Thanh Th district, Phu Tho province.
Tel: 0210 3877473
Trang Anh Guest House
Address: Co Tiet commune, Tam Nong district, Phu Tho province.
Tel: 0210 3794002
Hong Lan Guest House
Address: Group 3, Ha Hoa town, Ha Hoa district, Phu Tho province.
Tel: 0210 3883242
Hoang Anh Guest House
Address: 76, block 4B, Hai Ba Trung Street, Tho Son ward, Viet Tri city, Phu Tho province.
Tel: 0210 3911133
Hoang Loc Guest House
Address: Group 4, Ha Hoa town, Ha Hoa district, Phu Tho province.
Tel: 0210 3837900
Thanh Tra Guest House
Address: Group 9, Ninh Dan commune, Thanh Ba district, Phu Tho province.
Tel: 0210 3661040
559 Guest House
Address: Block 1, Bo Me group, Phong Chau town, Phu Ninh district, Phu Tho province.
Tel: 0210 3827067
Nga Dao Guest House
Address: Group 4, Viet Hung Street, Ben Got ward, Viet Tri city, Phu Tho province.
Tel: 0210 3862797
Hac Tri Fish Restaurant
Address: Tien Cat ward, Viet Tri city,Phu Tho province
Tel: 0210 3845 839
Hong Su Goat Meat Restaurant
Address: Thanh Son town, Thanh Son District, Phu Tho province
Tel: 0210 3612600
Quang Hue Dog Meat Restaurant
Address: Doan Ket street, Gia Cam ward, Viet Tri city, Phu Tho province
Tel: 0210 3848616
Dai Phu Gia Sea - Food Restaurant
Address: Thuy Van industrial zone, Van Phu ward, Viet Tri city, Phu Tho province
Tel: 0210 3954343
Xuan Tham Restaurant
Address: Hong Ha street, Tien Cat ward, Viet Tri city, Phu Tho province 
Tel: 0210 3848415
Fish Restaurant Riverside
Address: Tien Cat ward, Viet Tri city, Phu Tho province
Tel: 0210 3846013
Hong Son Goat Meat Restaurant
Address: Doan Ket Street, Gia Cam ward, Viet Tri city, Phu Tho province
Tel: 0210 3849464
Huong Bien Sea Food Restaurant
Address: Tho Son ward, Viet Tri city, Phu Tho province
Tel: 0210 3858058
Noi Hien Restaurant
Address: Gia Cam ward, Viet Tri city, Phu Tho province
Tel: 0210 3846625
Thanh Binh Dog Meat Restaurant
Address: Gia Cam ward, Viet Tri city,Phu Tho province
Tel: 0210 3847509
Phu Nam Sea Food Restaurant
Address: Group 4, Van Phu commune, Viet Tri city, Phu Tho province
Tel: 0210 3955155
Huong Thuy Restaurant
Address: Lam Thao town, Lam Thao district, Phu Tho province
Tel: 0210 3825014
Mountainous Trading Joint Stock Company Restaurant
Address: Bach Dang Street, Au Co ward, Phu Tho town, Phu Tho province.
Tel: 0210 3821329
Tinh Tam Vegetarian Restaurant
Address: Tien Cat ward, Viet Tri city, Phu Tho province
Tel: 0210 3840846
