LUNAR NEW YEAR 2015 ACTIVITIES
New year news paper exhibition
From 8.00 am, Feb 12th to Feb 24th 2015
Sa Pa library - Cau May street, Sapa town
Art exhibition "Sa Pa Spring"
From 8:30, Feb 14th to Feb 24th2015
Xuan vien park, Sapa town
Lunar New year 2015 opening ceremony
rom 20:00, Feb 18th 2015 (Dec 30th - lunar calendar)
Culture, sport, traditonal games of ethnic minorities.
From 8:30, Feb 13th 2015 to Feb 23rd 2015. (Dec 25th to Jan 5th -lunar calendar)
Music performance "upland color"
From 20:00, Feb 21st 2015 (Jan 3rd - lunar calendar)
Sapa love market
Từ 21h00', ngày 21/02/2015(tức ngày 3 tháng Giêng)
Playing Tennis
Culture, sport, traditonal games of ethnic minorities.
From 8:00, Feb 14th to Feb 24th2015
Culture and art activities of the H'mong people.
From 8:00, Feb 14th to Feb 24th2015
San Sa Ho’s Cat Cat Tourism area
Lunar new year festival
Time
Location
The H'mong flute competition
8:00, Feb 22nd 2015 (Jan 4th - lunar calendar)
Xoe Festival - Tay minority.
8:00, Feb 24th 2015 (Jan 6th - lunar calendar)
Thanh Phu Commune, Sapa District
Giao Duyen Festival - Dao minority.
8:00 am, Feb 27th 2015 (Jan 9thlunar calendar )
Ta Phin Commune, Sapa District
Gauxtao Festival - San Sa Ho commune
8:00, Feb 28th 2015 (Jan 10th - lunar calendar)
San Sa Ho Commune, Sapa District
Gauxtao Festival - Ta Giang Phin commune
8:00, March 1st 2015 (Jan 11th - lunar calendar)
Ta Giang Phin Commune, Sapa District
Xuong Dong Festival - Ta Van Commune
8:00, March 5th 2015 (Jan 15th - lunar calendar)
Ta Van Commune, Sapa District
Nam Giao Royal Offering Ritual
The Nam Giao Royal Offering Ritual was a traditional ceremony during the Nguyen dynasty which aimed to wish for favorable weather conditions, prosperity, and peace.
This year, the ceremony will be held in a solemn atmosphere with all traditional rites.
Thanks to its good nature and sincerity, the Offering Ritual has received the support of and will include participation from the people of the Ancient Capital.
Nam Giao Esplanade
Grand Opening Ceremony
The Grand Opening Ceremony presents a harmonious synthesis of traditional values and the contemporary arts of Hue, thus reflecting the rich and diverse cultural heritage of Vietnam and other nations from five continents.
Art performances will take place on a splendid, specially designed stage that brings the audiences to a brilliant “art banquet." The event is concluded by a stunning firework spectacle that promises to satisfy onlookers.
Noon Gate Square
Street performances of L'Homme Debout
At Hue Festival 2016, the company L'Homme Debout will present a poetic spectacle called Shining Stars in the Night, which evokes the intimate paths in the human mind with complicated feelings of conflict, retreat, wandering, and even collapse.
In the performance, a giant puppet of 7 meters in height, Liédo will be animated by professional artists and 40 local people. His amazing movements are accompanied by music, lights, and fireworks.
Trinh Cong Son Park
Ao Dai Show: “The Beginning of a Legend”
Featuring the theme “The Beginning of a Legend," the Ao Dai Show of Hue Festival 2016 will be held at Quoc Hoc Square and will inspire the audience with collections of diverse styles by designers from the northern,centrall and southern regions. The show will gather beauty queens, professional models, and more than 100 well-known artists and singers such as Quang Linh, Van Khanh, Quang Hao, etc., under the artistic leadership of Director Dinh Anh Dung.
Quoc Hoc Square
Street Parade: “Heritage and Cultural Colors”
During past Hue Festivals, Street Parades have created a joyful atmosphere and fabulously contributed to exciting the crowd.
With the theme “Heritage and Cultural Colors," the parade this year will be renewed with participation of member countries in the Forum of East Asia - Latin America Cooperation (FEALAC).
The synergy between the talents of international and Vietnamese artists and the excitement of the public will create a space of friendship at Hue Festival 2016.
Provincial Center for Culture &amp; Information
Imperial Night Program
As one of the highlights of Hue Festival, the “Imperial Night” reveals the unparalleled, shimmering beauty of the Imperial City at night time. The program features various displays of royal music and dance, royal and folk games, as well as exceptional sound, and video effects in the mystifying settings of the Citadel.
The royal banquet, to be taken place at Can Chanh Palace at 19:30, is definitely the heart of the Imperial Night's celebrations.
It is a distinctive combination between Hue royal cuisine and royal art; where participants will have a chance to taste the essence of gastronomy and enjoy the performing art of the old days.
Hue Citadel
Closing Ceremony
The Closing Ceremony will be meticulously staged with the participation of domestic and international art troupes.
It is a mixture of tradition and modernity that will create a feast of all emotions for this farewell. Until the next rendezvous!
Noon Gate Square
Fringe Activities
"Japanese Culture and Cuisine"
3/2 Park
Festival “Diabetes and Metabolic Disorders”
Green hotel Hue
Hue Science Festival 2016
Taking the theme “Medical Achievements towards Community Health”, the Hue Science Festival 2016 will be held from April 28 to May 1, with two major contents: symposia and workshops, and community-oriented activities with a variety of activities such as free health consulting, enhancing the understanding on science fields in the community, introducing and promoting the health-care achievements and information to the public.
Hue College of Medicine and Pharmacy
International Trade Fair
Comprising of more than 600 booths from domestic and international businesses and enterprises, the International Trade Fair at Hue Festival 2016 will be held to introduce and exchange cultures as well as specific products between the participating countries and territories. This is the opportunity for domestic business circle to promote their brand names and services to foreign investors and tourists, promote trade links and cooperation with the countries in the East-West Economic Corridor in the context of the international economic integration. In the Fair, many exhibitions will also be held to introduce visitors the cultural, social and economic achievements, the potentials and advantages of the domestic enterprises, the preferential investment policies as well as the development in productions of local businesses and traditional craft villages. All of these activities will serve trade promotion and market development.
Thua Thien Hue Sports Center
Hue International Cuisine Festival 2016
Taking place at Phu Xuan Park (Nghinh Luong Pavilion – Phu Van Lau Pavilion), the Hue International Cuisine Festival 2016 will assemble more than 100 domestic and international booths from cities and provinces nationwide and those of South East Asia and Asia such as Japan, Korea, China, Taiwan, etc.
The event is to honor the quintessence of Viet Nam and international culinary culture as well as to boost cultural exchange and cooperation between Viet Nam and other countries in the region and the world.
Nghinh Luong Pavilion
National Senior Golf Championship 2016
Laguna Lang Co’s Golf Court
Book &amp; Stamp Publications Fair
Provincial Center for Culture &amp; Information
Vegetarian cuisine court “Friendly environment – Happy life”
Lieu Quan Buddhist Cultural Center
Hue Science Festival 2016
Taking the theme “Medical Achievements towards Community Health”, the Hue Science Festival 2016 will be held from April 28 to May 1, with two major contents: symposia and workshops, and community-oriented activities with a variety of activities such as free health consulting, enhancing the understanding on science fields in the community, introducing and promoting the health-care achievements and information to the public.
Ly Tu Trong Park
First meeting of the project: FEALAC Network of Cultural Cities
Saigon Morin Hotel
Kite Flying
Since ancient times, flying kite has been considered a creative recreation.
It has connected closely with many Vietnamese generation’s childhood and windy sky.
Kite is the symbol of peace, freedom and desire.
It reflects the burning dream of man to reach the sky. The Kite Flying Fiesta “Wings of Vietnam” in Hue Festival 2016 is an opportunity for people of Hue and tourists to enjoy the beautiful and novel kites of kite clubs from all over the country.
Phu Van Lau
Hue Beer Festival
Nghinh Luong Pavilion
Exhibit of Woodblock Prints from Sinh Village
Over 400 years of existence, the folk paintings of Sinh village have carried within themselves numerous precious traditional folk art values.
Through time and social changes, the values of Sinh paintings have gradually been faded and deformed, many paintings and printing-boards are no longer in their original forms or missing.
The exhibition of folk paintings of Sinh village within the framework of Hue Festival 2016 is an activity aiming to reaffirm the reputation of a famous folk painting genre. It also gives locals and tourists an opportunity to directly print paintings as well as explore their meaning, contributing the conservation and promotion of the cultural and artistic values of Hue.
3/2 Park
The festivity "Rural Market on Festive Days"
Being held every two years as a fringe activity of the Hue Festival, the “Rural Market on Festive Days” Festivity is an opportunity to promote the original attraction of Huong Thuy District and special local produces.
The festivity is associated with new, attractive cultural, artistic, tourist and community activities to create a driving force for local socio-economic development.
Joining the festivity, visitors will be immersed in a peaceful and relaxed ambience of a typical Vietnamese village, despite its busy atmosphere of a new harvest. It reminds them of their beloved hometowns and brings childhood memories flooding back.
http://www.huefestival.com/index.php?cat_id=631
Thanh Toan roofed bridge, Huong Thuy Town
Sampam Racing
Sampan racing is a traditional sport infused with the national cultural identity. This activity is held every year in an effort to promote the mutual understanding, exchanging and solidarity among locals. It also enhances the tradition of sport practicing among people of Thua Thien Hue province.
Ly Tu Trong Park
Children's Fiesta "Colors of Childhood"
“Colours of Childhood” is a fiesta within Hue Festival that gives children a chance to play, learn, express and discover themselves.
This year, the fiesta will take place from April 30 to May 2 at Hue Children’s House and Nguyen Van Troi park with a variety of activities such as painting drawing, paper torn and pasted painting themed “The Colours of the Country”, folk songs festival “The Melody of My Homeland”, costume ball and cheerleading dance program entitled “Sparkling Colours” for students of primary and secondary schools in the city of Hue.
Hue Children's House
Hue Science Festival 2016
Taking the theme “Medical Achievements towards Community Health”, the Hue Science Festival 2016 will be held from April 28 to May 1, with two major contents: symposia and workshops, and community-oriented activities with a variety of activities such as free health consulting, enhancing the understanding on science fields in the community, introducing and promoting the health-care achievements and information to the public.
Hue College of Medicine and Pharmacy
National Hiphop Festival of Urban Jam
“Fragrances of an Ancient Village”
Joining the “Fragrances of an Ancient Village” festivity, visitors will have a chance to enjoy the pristine beauty and tranquility of a 500-year-old village with many ancient houses and temples. People can come across traditional crafts such as pottery making in Phuoc Tich, wood carving in My Xuyen, or participate in flying kites and other sport games such as soccer, volley ball and tug of war on the beach of Dien Loc village.
Beside Phuoc Tich and My Xuyen, visitors will have an opportunity to explore other famous traditional craft villages in Phong Dien district, for example Pho Trach village with sedge based production, Phong Hai village with fish sauce making, Phong Chuong village with rice liquor production and Phong My village with fermented young bamboo production.
Phuoc Tich Village, Phong Dien District
Bike parade "Business Community with the environment and wildlife protection
Nguyen Dinh Chieu Walking Street
Hue Poetry Festival
Being held on the side of the Huong river, Hue Poetry Festival is an opportunity for poets of the Writers’ Association of Thua Thien Hue and other provinces to exchange and recite the lyrical poems praising the country, people and islands.
Int'l workshop: Royal and common culinary art - the extraordinary feature of Hue in the development of tourism
Indochine Palace Hotel - Hue
Rock Concert "The Ancient Capital's Heat"
Hot Air Balloon Festival
Ham Nghi Yard
Music Programs
Street music by Hue’s clubs
Lang Du Band
With the great success of Lang Du’s concerts at the last Hue Festival, the band and singer Dong Lan is returning to Hue Festival 2016 with an exclusive concert of passionate flamenco music and French love songs at An Dinh Palace, and at the vibrant and improvisational street performances in the afternoons.
An Dinh Palace
The State Academic Kuban Cossack Chorus, Russia
Kien Trung's Stage
Della Mae Band - The U.S
Della Mea (Boston, Massachusetts) was born in 2009 from a yearning for a traditional bluegrass sound in the heart of New England.
When the band started, there was not a single all-women bluegrass band on the national touring scene.
One of the main goals of Della Mae from the start was to showcase strong women in bluegrass.
Their musical style seamlessly blends years of experience with traditional mountain music and modern singer-songwriter sensibilities.
Thai Hoa's Western Stage
Paulina y el Buscapié Band – Mexico
At Hue Festival 2016, Paulina y el Buscapié will introduce to the audience their second album titled Vetanas a la Calle.
In this album, the band interprets new compositions, seeking to open a window between the music and the audience, inviting them to look outside to the street – the public space – and reflect with each song the multiple approaches of the diverse and complex present.
An Dinh Palace
Michal Milczarek Trio – Poland
Michał Milczarek Trio is one of the most interesting young bands on the Polish jazz scene.
The group creates instrumental music which is a combination of modern jazz, rock and electronic.
It is known as one of the fastest prospering groups in Polish improvised music. The band is known for a very intense concert activity, and Trio performances are considered to be extremely spontaneous and presenting jazz in a decidedly rock perspective.
Royal Theater
Giao thoi Band
Giao Thoi has been considered as a diverse group. Its repertoire is blended with not only the contemporary folk music and dance but also the world intangible cultural heritage such as the “Quan ho”, “Then” singing, “Ca Tru”, Hue traditional folk songs and the Southern folk music. With the ambition to bring traditional music closer to young audiences, the group has renewed their compositions and created unique remixes by integrating modern music with the timbres of traditional instruments.
Thai Hoa's Western Stage
Germein Sisters Band – Australia
Australia’s Germein Sisters are a young indie pop band, singing catchy songs full of sunshine and a whole lot of heart.
Georgia, Ella, and Clara’s harmonies blend perfectly, with an intangible closeness unique to siblings.
Their infectious songs and upbeat performances immediately started attracting public attention.
The girls released their debut album "Because You Breathe" in Australia and Europe to much celebration and critical acclaim.
Cancer Band – Denmark
Cancer is a new duo consisting of When Saints Go Machine lead singer and producer Nikolaj Manuel Vonsild and Chorus Grant lead singer and guitarist Kristian Finne Kristensen. The two songwriters and friends have been working on creating a new and unique musical universe for several years.
Nikolaj Manuel Vonsild is known for his characteristic, beautiful, and soulful vocals in When Saints Go Machine’s electronic music. Kristian Finne is known for his warm and ever-present vocals and the analog sound of guitars, bass, and drums in Chorus Grant.
Stealing Sheep - The U.K
Stealing Sheep are a pop band from Liverpool, England, who formed in 2010. The three members are Rebecca Hawley (vocals and keyboards), Emily Lansley (vocals and guitar) and Lucy Mercer (vocals and drums).
Their acclaimed 2012 debut, 'Into the Diamond Sun', morphed their individual styles to create a 'medieval-kraut-folk' inspired sound. They were described as an unanticipated 'pagan pop revival' and since its release, have toured around Europe.
For second album ‘Not Real’ they have concentrated on developing the sonic aesthetic of their music. They've experimented with tuned percussion, programmed beats, trigger samples and worked with effected synths, utilising the guitar and lap steel more sparingly and introducing more processed sounds.
The release of ‘Not Real’ in April 2015 was met with critical acclaim in the UK and Europe and a Summer of festivals followed including a stunning set at Glastonbury.
Paulina y el Buscapié Band – Mexico
At Hue Festival 2016, Paulina y el Buscapié will introduce to the audience their second album titled Vetanas a la Calle.
In this album, the band interprets new compositions, seeking to open a window between the music and the audience, inviting them to look outside to the street – the public space – and reflect with each song the multiple approaches of the diverse and complex present.
Fuzeta Band – France
FUZETA, who recently played at the International Contemporary Music Festival (Rencontres Transmusicales) in Rennes, dreamed to be the ferrymen to bring American pop music across the ocean.
The Breton quartet prove to be deserving successors with their awe-inspiring performances, no matter what disclosure they made about their improvised style.
Despite the influences from Grandaddy and Bon Iver, FUZETA still creates its own signature sound with a fantastic harmony of its members’ unique and fresh voices. They are undoubtedly one of the most sought after French groups in the indie rock scene.
Hoang Rob &amp; GEN9 Quartet
Traditional Arts
Okinawa Art Troupe - Takamine Hisae – Japan
The Okinawa Dance Ensemble is led by Mrs. Takamine Hisae, professor at Okinawa University of Arts and chairperson of the Ryukyu Okinawa Dance Association, who has made a major contribution in training numerous generations of artists.
Its repertoire focuses mainly on the art of singing and dancing that was formed through the trading and development process of the Ryukyu Kingdom with other countries in the area.
Royal Theater
Vietnamese Timber Show
Continuing the success of the previous Hue Festivals, this year, traditional musical values of Vietnam will be glorified once again in the opulent space of Dien Tho Palace through the talents of Phu Xuan Royal Court Music &amp; Folk Singing Club together with artists, artisans from Thai Ha “Ca tru” Club (Hanoi), “Bai Choi” and “Ho” Singing Conservation &amp; Development Center (Quang Ngai) and Danang Folk Singing Club.
Dien Tho Palace
Thang Long Music and Dance Theatre
Kien Trung's Stage
Youth Dance Ensemble - Sri Lanka
The Youth Dance Ensemble will make every effort to help Sri Lankan youth to improve their creativity and to ensure cultural exchange programmes with other countries whilst contributing to the promotion of Sri Lankan heritage.
In Hue Festival 2016, the Youth Dance Ensemble will introduce three distinct indigenous dance forms with a history of over 2500 years. They are identified as Kandyan, Pahatharata and Sabaragamuwa dance forms.
Can Chanh Stage - Hue Citadel
Fundación Changó Music Group
Being founded in 2004, Changó Pacific Music Foundation (Fundación de Música del Pacifico Changó) is an organization dedicated to preserving, strengthening, and spreading traditional music from Colombia’s South Pacific Coast.
The group’s music, which includes pango, patacoré, and caramba, among many others, reflects the unique cultural makeup of the region, including its African influence.
Dancing Programs
Halleluya Dance Group – Israel
The fresh and dazzling Halleluya dance group has swept Israel and the world, with its youthful spirit, love of dance and diversified repertoire.
The company was created in 1988 by Barry Avidan, the choreographer and artistic director. The group has already appeared on many TV networks and many stages around the world, sharing its colorful performances to dance lovers in Israel and abroad.
Halleluya Dance Company is embarking on a tour with a renewed program from the latest creations of Mr. Barry Avidan, full of contemporary creation with traditional ethnic influences.
Thai Hoa's Eastern Stage
Amurskie Zori Dance Group – Russia
Being founded in 1989 with 218 talented children aged from 16 to 18, the folk dance group Amurskie Zori was named after the folk dance “Amurskie Zori”.
The group’s choreographer - Kuznetsov Pavel has worked as a choreographer for over 32 years.
In its repertoires, the group performs Russian folk dances, traditional dances of the Far Eastern region and others.
In 1994, Amurskie Zori was confered the title “The National Ensemble of Russia”.
Phuoc Tich Village, Phong Dien District
Youth Dance Ensemble - Sri Lanka
The Youth Dance Ensemble will make every effort to help Sri Lankan youth to improve their creativity and to ensure cultural exchange programmes with other countries whilst contributing to the promotion of Sri Lankan heritage.
In Hue Festival 2016, the Youth Dance Ensemble will introduce three distinct indigenous dance forms with a history of over 2500 years. They are identified as Kandyan, Pahatharata and Sabaragamuwa dance forms.
Halleluya dance group – Israel
The fresh and dazzling Halleluya dance group has swept Israel and the world, with its youthful spirit, love of dance and diversified repertoire.
The company was created in 1988 by Barry Avidan the choreographer and the Artistic director. The group has already appeared on many TV networks and many stages in the world, sweeping its colorful performances to dance lovers in Israel and abroad.
Halleluya Dance Company is embarking on a tour with a renewed program from the latest creations of Mr. Barry Avidan, full of contemporary creation with traditional ethnic influences.
Youth Dance Ensemble - Sri Lanka
The Youth Dance Ensemble will make every effort to help Sri Lankan youth to improve their creativity and to ensure cultural exchange programmes with other countries whilst contributing to the promotion of Sri Lankan heritage.
In Hue Festival 2016, the Youth Dance Ensemble will introduce three distinct indigenous dance forms with a history of over 2500 years. They are identified as Kandyan, Pahatharata and Sabaragamuwa dance forms.
Par Terre Dance Group – France
Autarcie is a successful piece of dance by Anne Nguyen, a Vietnamese-French choreographer who was awarded the 2013 SACD New Choreography Talent Prize.
Autarcie depicts a strategy game, in which four dancers engage in a frantic ritual and improvised dance.
By using dance techniques such as breaking, popping, and waacking as abstract body language, each artist expresses his strong personality on the stage in seeking his own territory, alliance, and position among the intense and unbridled rhythms of electronic drums.
Thai Hoa's Eastern Stage
Yoon Muyung Hwa Dance Ensemble – Korea
Yoon Myung Hwa Dance Ensemble was founded in 1998 in an attempt to promote Korean traditional dances and create new ones inspired by authentic dances.
The ensemble has consistently pursued this approach throughout its development process.
The ensemble has received widespread appreciation for the aesthetic value of its performances both in Korea and abroad.
Can Chanh Stage - Hue Citadel
Amurskie Zori Dance Group – Russia
Being founded in 1989 with 218 talented children aged from 16 to 18, the folk dance group Amurskie Zori was named after the folk dance “Amurskie Zori”.
The group’s choreographer - Kuznetsov Pavel has worked as a choreographer for over 32 years.
In its repertoires, the group performs Russian folk dances, traditional dances of the Far Eastern region and others.
In 1994, Amurskie Zori was confered the title “The National Ensemble of Russia”.
Thanh Toan roofed bridge, Huong Thuy Town
Exhibitions, Displays, Installation Art
Display of "Imperial Records of Nguyen Dynasty and the administrative organization of its court
Long Roofed Corridor - Hue Citadel
Exhibition: “Painting street”
Le Ngo Cat Street
Antique exhibit: “Artistic and Cultural Heritage of Ancient Buddhism &amp; Hinduism in Southern Regions”
Lieu Quan Buddhist Cultural Center
Display of Hue Kites
Hue Cultural Museum
Display of the Nguyen Dynasty's Golden Seals and Books
Hue Museum of Royal Fine Arts
"Hue - Saigon - Hanoi" Fine Arts Exhibition
Hue Cultural Museum
Display of two antique collections entitled "the tale of thousand-year antiques" by Lam Du Xenh and Nguyen Huu Hoang
Photo exhibit "Forests vs Hue Cultural Heritages"
Tu Tuong Park
Display: Collections of Japanese’s Pottery and Craft Products during the 18th and 20th centuries
Painting exhibition "Rendezvous"
Tran Dinh Son Private Museum – Hue
Ho Chi Minh Museum
Display of the Nguyen Dynasty and Hue of the past
Long Roofed Corridor - Hue Citadel
Exhibition: “Truc Chi Art – The History of Long An Palace”
Hue Museum of Royal Fine Arts
Exhibit of Restored Pottery Wares from Ly - Tran Dynasties by Artisan Tran Do
Interior Ministry, Imperial City
Exhibition: “The Cultural Imprints of Hue – The Ancient Capital and The Red River Delta via Traditional Craft Products”
Historical and Revolutionary Museum
Bonsai exhibit: “Orchids from the three regions of Vietnam and Hue Bonsai”
Co Ha Royal Garden, Imperial City
Exhibition: “Heritage Magazine and Hue Cultural Heritage”
Kien Trung's Stage
Painting exhibition on Composer Trinh Cong Son
Exhibit of “Royal confectioneries” presented by artisan Hoang Anh
Art Programs
Viet Bac Folk Ensemble
The Viet Bac Folk Ensemble was founded in 1953 with its major tasks to compile and showcase the distinctive art genres of ethnic minorities in the Northern region and promote cultural exchanges with other countries in the world.
With its rich repertoires which are imbued with regional identity, humanity and affections for the people and the country, the Viet Bac Folk Ensemble has contributed a great deal to the conservation and the development of Vietnamese culture.
The Central Cultural Palace of Mongolia
Guangdong Multi-Arts Ensemble – China
The Guangdong’s Silk Road Ensemble is comprised of talented artists and inheritors of intangible cultural heritage from Zhanjiang Dance Troupe, Guangdong Folk Dance and Classical Opera Theatre, Guangdong and Nanchang Music and Dance Troupes, and Guangzhou Vaudeville Theatre.
The Guangdong’s Silk Road Ensemble will present an exclusive and diversified repertoir of colorful ethnic dances in congruence with unrivaled traditional folk music and magic tricks reflecting the beauty of Lingnan’s culture.
Thai Hoa's Eastern Stage
Pantomime artist Jean-Louis Danvoye
Representing the Wallonie – Bruxlles region in Hue Festival 2016, Jean-Louis Danvoye will co-operate with the Vietnamese pantomime artist Hoang Tung to present the play “To see or not to see”.
This humorous wordless play is a perfect combination of mime art, the romance of visison and the ashtonishing spirit of the clowns.
The artists will take audience into their glamorous skits with skilled techniques and endless imagination.
Thang Long Music and Dance Theatre
Founded in 1960 with the original name of the Hanoi Music &amp; Dance Ensemble, Thang Long Music and Dance Theatre always successfully completes its tasks.
During its 56 years of development, the theatre has conducted over a thousand of performances in the country and abroad and positively contributed to the development of Vietnam’s culture
Viet Bac Folk Ensemble
The Viet Bac Folk Ensemble was founded in 1953 with its major tasks to compile and showcase the distinctive art genres of ethnic minorities in the Northern region and promote cultural exchanges with other countries in the world.
With its rich repertoires which are imbued with regional identity, humanity and affections for the people and the country, the Viet Bac Folk Ensemble has contributed a great deal to the conservation and the development of Vietnamese culture.
Thanh Toan roofed bridge, Huong Thuy Town
Belly Dancer Hong Hanh &amp; Sadie Dance Group
Being the belly artist that first paved the way for Vietnam's Belly Dance community to join the international arena, Do Hong Hanh has won over 20 awards at different contests of this art form.
Hanh also contributes actively to the development of this genre by joining judge panels of domestic and international belly dance contests and training Vietnam’s belly dance talents to attend major international competitions held annually.Besides, she has achieved a great success with the two belly dance groups, namely Sadie (for the age of 13 years and older) and Ministars (under 12 years of age).
Taking part in Hue Festival 2016, Hong Hanh and Sadie Belly Dance Group will ignite audiences with their inspiring and alluring dances.
Pantomime artist Jean-Louis Danvoye
Representing the Wallonie – Bruxelles region at Hue Festival 2016, Jean-Louis Danvoye will partner with the Vietnamese pantomime artist Hoang Tung to present the play “To see or not to see”.
This humorous wordless play is a perfect combination of mime art, the romantic visison and the astonishing spirit of the clowns.
The artists will invite the audience into their glamorous skits with skilled techniques and endless imagination.
The Central Cultural Palace of Mongolia
Bong Sen Traditional Music and Dance Theatre
The State Academic Kuban Cossack Chorus, Russia
The State Academic Kuban Cossack Chorus is the oldest Russian folk chorus, with a history that goes back to 1811.
At that time it was a military choir of the Kuban Cossack Army, based in Ekaterinodar, the capital city of the South Russian province of Kuban, performing mostly in churches during religious services. Later, the Chorus started to give secular stage performances, and its repertoire got broader with classical pieces and folk songs.
For over 200 years now the Chorus has been a symbol and pride of Russian folk art.
The Chorus received highest awards for its great contributions in Russian culture.
It is the only company in Russia that received an honorary title of Ambassador of “SOCHI 2014” Olympics.
The temperament, originality and superior skills of the State Academic Kuban Cossack Chorus have received enthusiastic applauses in many countries as well as much praises from the national and foreign press and prominent figures in arts.
Yangpyeong Dance Ensemble – Korea
